[
{"StartDate": "December 1997", "Description": "Congenital esotropia is the most common form of childhood strabismus. Despite its common occurrence, limited information is available about its early clinical course. Such data are needed to determine the earliest age at which surgery can be safely performed without concern that the esotropia is likely to resolve spontaneously. Although the term congenital esotropia implies that the esotropia is present at birth, in many cases the esotropia actually develops sometime during the first few months of life. It is well recognized that congenital esotropia persisting through 6 months of age rarely if ever resolves spontaneously and therefore requires surgical correction. However, it is not clear how often congenital esotropia occurs and then resolves (at an earlier age such that surgery is not necessary) before surgery is required. Current clinical practice is to defer surgery for congenital esotropia until 6 to 12 months of age. Assuming that characteristics of congenital esotropia at 2 to 4 months of age can be identified to predict which cases will require surgery, then a trial will be warranted to determine whether performing earlier surgery enhances the development of binocular vision. The potential benefit to very early surgery is supported by neurophysiologic research, which has shown that (1) congenital esotropes may be born with the innate ability to develop binocular vision, (2) there is a critical period for development of normal binocular function within the first few months of life that is dependent on alignment of the visual axes of the two eyes, and (3) ocular misalignment alone, regardless of its mechanism, without a coexisting primary cortical fusion deficit, can account for abnormal development of binocular vision. Clinical reports have demonstrated that surgical correction of the esotropia between 6 and 12 months of age provides for enhanced development of stereoacuity compared with later surgery. However, there are limited data on the outcomes in infants who had surgical correction before age 6 months. The protocol for the study is identical to usual clinical practice. Following informed consent, two followup visits are conducted: one 2 to 4 weeks after the first examination and the other when the child is between 28 and 32 weeks of age. The examinations will be identical to the pediatric ophthalmologist's usual routine, and no additional procedures are being performed specifically for the study. Management of refractive error and amblyopia is left to the ophthalmologist's discretion. A sample size of 150 has been projected for the study.", "Title": "Congenital Esotropia Observational Study (CEOS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000163", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000163.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000163", "Summary": "To observe the early course of congenital esotropia, a form of childhood strabismus. This will determine the probability of spontaneous resolution. Researchers then will try to correlate this finding with various aspects of the esotropia such as the (1) size of the esotropia, (2) variability, and (3) presence of hyperopia. This information will be used to determine the feasibility of conducting a clinical trial to assess the benefit of early surgery for congenital esotropia and, if feasible, to refine eligibility criteria for the trial.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-65", "Keywords": "['Congenital Esotropia']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000163.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "May 1999", "Description": "Complications of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) are the leading cause of severe vision loss among people aged 65 and over in the United States and many Western countries. Most, (approximately 90 percent), of this vision loss is due to the neovascular (or wet) form of AMD. The word neovascular describes the development of new, abnormal blood vessels in the back of the eye. Unfortunately, the majority of these new vessels are not amenable to currently available treatments. The first sign that an eye may develop AMD is the presence of drusen, yellowish deposits under the retina. Current data suggests that eyes with large drusen are at increased risk for developing the vision threatening complications of AMD. Since the 1970s investigators have reported consistently that laser photocoagulation causes a reduction in large drusen. However, results of the effects of laser treatment on preventing later complications of AMD have been less consistent and based on relatively small numbers of patients. Further study into the ability of a treatment to prevent vision loss from the advanced forms of AMD would have profound public health implications. A treatment that could reduce the risk of developing neovascularization by 30 percent might reduce the risk of blindness from AMD by one half. The Complications of Age-related Macular Degeneration Prevention Trial (CAPT) will assess whether treating drusen by laser photocoagulation reduces the risk of loss of visual acuity. The CAPT is a multi-center, prospective, randomized clinical trial designed to assess the safety and effectiveness of low-intensity laser treatment in preventing vision loss among patients with large drusen in both eyes. A total of 1052 participants were enrolled in the study. Participants had one eye randomly assigned to laser treatment performed by a CAPT-certified ophthalmologist. The other eye was not treated. Both eyes were observed carefully for any changes for a period of five years. The effectiveness of the treatment was assessed using the following criteria: Change in visual acuity (primary outcome measure of the study) Incidence of complications of AMD such as neovascularization, serous detachment of the pigment epithelium, and geographic atrophy Changes in contrast threshold and critical print size for reading Quality of life assessments for patients, using the Visual Function Questionnaire 25 (VFQ-25), were conducted at the time of enrollment and at 5 years. STUDY RESULTS: Follow-up of patients was excellent; less than 3% of visual acuity examinations were missed. At 5 years, 188 (20.5%) treated eyes and 188 (20.5%) observed eyes had visual acuity scores \u22653 lines worse than at the initial visit (p= 1.00). The cumulative 5-year incidence rates for treated and observed eyes for CNV were 13.3% and 13.3% (p=0.95), respectively; and for GA were 7.4% and 7.8% (p=0.64), respectively. The contrast threshold doubled in 23.9% of treated eyes and in 20.5% of observed eyes (p=0.40). The critical print size doubled in 29.6% of treated eyes and in 28.4% of observed eyes (p=0.70). Seven (0.7%) treated eyes and 14 (1.3%) observed eyes had an adverse event of a \u22656 -line loss in visual acuity in the absence of late age-related macular degeneration or cataract. As applied in CAPT, low intensity laser treatment did not demonstrate a clinically significant benefit on vision in eyes of people with bilateral large drusen.", "Title": "Complications of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Prevention Trial", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000167", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000167.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000167", "Summary": "To determine whether application of low-intensity laser treatment of eyes with drusen in the macula can prevent later complications of age-related macular degeneration and thereby preserve visual function.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-70", "Keywords": "['Age-Related Macular Degeneration']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000167.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Complications of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Prevention Trial (CAPT)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "50"},
{"StartDate": "August 1998", "Description": "Ocular abnormalities in patients with AIDS were first reported in 1982. The most common finding is a non-infectious \"HIV retinopathy\", characterized by cotton wool spots, intraretinal hemorrhages, and/or microaneurysms. These changes occur in approximately 50 percent of patients with AIDS. HIV retinopathy alone is not typically associated with clinical loss of vision, but functional deficits in patients with AIDS without other ocular complications may be due to this phenomenon. CMV retinitis has had the most clinical importance of all the associated complications of AIDS. It is commonly seen in late stage AIDS, and even when treated has the potential to cause substantial loss of vision. CMV retinitis is also the most costly AIDS-related opportunistic infection; the mean monthly cost of treatment has been estimated at $7,825. The incidence of CMV retinitis has varied with changes in the therapeutic and prophylactic strategies for AIDS and its complications. It has been on the decline in recent years related to the increased use of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART). Other ocular complications of AIDS such as ocular toxoplasmosis, herpes zoster retinitis, and pneumocystis choroidopathy occur less frequently than CMV retinitis and HIV retinopathy. Their frequency has also changed over the course of the AIDS epidemic. Because the epidemiology of AIDS is rapidly evolving, with HIV becoming more like a chronic disease, new information is needed on the incidence and course of ocular complications. We have little information about the effect of HAART therapy over time on changes in immune status and the risk of ocular complications of AIDS. More information is also needed to determine who is at risk for developing ocular complications of AIDS, and how treatment is affecting their visual function, quality of life, and survival. The Longitudinal Study of Ocular Complications of AIDS (LSOCA) is prospective observational study of patients with AIDS. Patients with a prior diagnosis of AIDS according to the 1993 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria with or without ocular complications will be enrolled over a 4 year period. Approximately 2,000 patients will be enrolled in the study. Enrollment of patients with CMV retinitis at baseline will be between 300 and 600 patients. Followup visits for patients without ocular complications will be scheduled every 6 months. Followup visits for patients with ocular complications at baseline or diagnosed during followup will be every 3 months. Followup data will include eye examinations, fundus photographs, visual function testing, medical history, hematology and serum chemistry, and collection of plasma and blood cells for banking. Analysis of banked specimens will include HIV RNA levels and CMV DNA levels.", "Title": "Longitudinal Study of Ocular Complications of AIDS (LSOCA)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000168", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000168.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000168", "Summary": "To monitor trends over time, in the incidence of CMV retinitis and other ocular complications of AIDS To determine the effect of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART)-induced immune status on the risk of developing CMV retinitis and other ocular complications of AIDS To determine the characteristics (clinical, virologic, hematologic, and biochemical) of a population at high risk for CMV retinitis and other ocular complications of AIDS To evaluate the effects of treatments for CMV retinitis and other ocular complications on visual function, quality of life, and survival.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-71", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000168.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Studies of Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "13"},
{"StartDate": "April 1999", "Description": "The Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia (OLSM) was started in 1989 to investigate normal eye growth and the development of myopia in over 1,200 school-aged children to date. Beginning in 1997, three parallel study phases are being conducted. Phase 1 investigates additional factors that may predict the onset of juvenile myopia (accommodative function, peripheral refractive error, intraocular pressure, and school achievement). Phase 2 compares and contrasts the optical ocular components and refractive error profiles of other ethnic groups with the predominantly Caucasian Orinda database. Phase 3 conducts DNA-based studies on the prevalent OLSM myopes and their families to use these phenotypically well-characterized children and a panel of candidate genes to look for evidence of genetic factors. In parallel with the candidate gene association, family material is used in an allele sharing approach to identify loci using highly variable, PCR-based markers. In Phase 1 we continue to examine Orinda Union School District children in grades 1 through 8 (ages 6 through 14 years) annually. The measurement of accommodative response, accommodative lag, phoria, response AC/A ratio, peripheral refractive error, and intraocular pressure will be added to the existing protocol, and photokeratoscopy and two measures of tonic accommodation will be eliminated to minimize respondent burden. Parents of children in the study will be contacted for their permission to release school achievement data (Iowa Test of Basic Skills). Phase 2 adds a major component by adding three clinical centers to assess the influence of ethnicity on normal ocular and refractive error development. Children in these three are examined annually with initial enrollment in all grades from 1 through 8 using the revised OLSM protocol as described above. Increased prevalence of myopia among children of myopic parents, twin studies, segregation analysis, and our own preliminary analyses from the OLSM support a genetic etiologic component for myopia. In phase 3, we use the phenotypic characterization of children in the Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia to identify prevalent cases of myopia and their families. These well-defined phenotypic myopes and non-myopic siblings and their parents are being explored, seeking to develop a panel of candidate genes for myopia and to conduct an allele sharing analysis in these families The Collaborative Longitudinal Evaluation of Ethnicity and Refractive Error (CLEERE) Study is a multi-center, observational investigation of ocular development and refractive error development in schoolchildren. It adds three clinical centers to the Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia (OLSM), begun in 1989, specifically to describe normal ocular growth in children ages 6 to 14 years, and to develop the ability to predict juvenile onset myopia before it is clinically evident. In addition to the more than 1,300 predominantly Caucasian children enrolled in the OLSM, three additional clinical sites enroll African-American, Hispanic, and Asian children. The children are examined annually for at least four years. Examinations include visual acuity, refraction by a variety of methods (cycloplegic autorefraction being the primary outcome measure), cover test at distance and near, accommodative response assessment with the autorefractor, response AC/A ratio measurement, videophakometry, peripheral refraction, and A-scan ultrasonography. Patients are examined at 4 clinical centers. The clinical centers have enrolled 3,493 patients as of April 28, 1999.", "Title": "The Collaborative Longitudinal Evaluation of Ethnicity and Refractive Error (CLEERE) Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000169", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000169.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000169", "Summary": "To compare and contrast normal eye growth, ocular component development, and refractive error development in Hispanic, African-American, and Asian schoolchildren with what happens in Caucasian children from the Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia. To investigate risk factors for the development of myopia. To conduct DNA-based studies on nearsighted children and their families.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-72", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000169.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Recruiting", "MaximumAge": "14", "MinimumAge": "6"},
{"StartDate": "April 1999", "Description": "Amblyopia, or lazy eye, is the most common cause of visual impairment in children and often persists in adulthood. It is reported to be the leading cause of vision loss in one eye in the 20-70 year old age group, with a prevalence of 1-4 percent in various studies, indicating that both improved means of detection and treatment are needed. Most of the available data on the natural history of amblyopia and success rates of its treatment with either patching or drug therapy are retrospective and uncontrolled. Despite the common occurrence of amblyopia, there is little quality data on treatment of this condition. Thus, there is much to be learned about the course of treated amblyopia, to provide more precise estimates of success rates and to identify factors that may be associated with successful and unsuccessful treatment. Amblyopia, when diagnosed in children, is usually treated with occlusion (patching) of the sound eye. Occlusion therapy is subject to problems of compliance, due to the child's dislike of wearing a patch for visual, skin irritation, and social/psychological reasons. There is evidence that compliance may be one of, if not, the most important determinant of success of amblyopia therapy. An alternative treatment, drug therapy with a cycloplegic drug (atropine) that dilates the pupils and blurs the image seen by the sound eye, has been known for almost a century. This method has been widely used for the management of occlusion treatment failures and for maintenance therapy. However, it has seen little use as a primary treatment for amblyopia. Clinical experience has found that it has a high acceptability to patients and parents, and hence high compliance. In addition to its acceptability, pharmacologic therapy has the known advantage over occlusion of providing a wider visual field with both eyes, which may have safety and other functional implications. There is also clinical and laboratory evidence suggesting that drug therapy may maintain and improve the ability to see with both eyes (binocularity). Available data suggest that the success rate with drug therapy is as good as, if not better than, the success rate with occlusion therapy for mild to moderate degrees of amblyopia. If this is true, for many children with amblyopia, drug therapy may be the preferred initial therapy since it appears to be more readily accepted by the children and parents. Despite data to support the use of drug therapy as a primary therapy for amblyopia, it has gained only limited use among pediatric ophthalmologists. A definitive study comparing the outcomes from occlusion therapy and drug therapy is justified in order to determine if new practice guidelines for treatment of amblyopia are needed. Regardless of whether the trial determines that one therapeutic approach is better than the other, the data that are collected will provide valuable information about the course of amblyopia treatment that is not presently available. The study also is expected to provide data that will help to determine whether factors such as age, refractive status, cause of amblyopia, or fixation pattern should be considered in determining which procedure is best for a given patient. Extended Follow-up of Study Patients The extended follow up study consists of annual visits prior to age 10, followed by a visit at age 10 years and a visit at age 15 years. There is no amblyopia treatment that is required during the extended follow up period.", "Title": "Occlusion Versus Pharmacologic Therapy for Moderate Amblyopia", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000170", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000170.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000170", "Summary": "- To determine whether the success rate with drug treatment (atropine) of amblyopia due to strabismus or anisometropia in patients less than 7 years old is equivalent to the success rate with occlusion (patching) therapy - To develop more precise estimates of the success rates of amblyopia treatment - To identify factors that may be associated with successful treatment of amblyopia - To collect data on the course of treated amblyopia to provide more precise estimates of treatment effects than are now available Extended Follow up of Study Patients - Primary: To determine the long-term visual acuity outcome at age 10 years and at age 15 years in patients diagnosed with amblyopia before age 7 years. - Secondary: To determine whether the long-term visual acuity outcome at age 10 years and at age 15 years differs between patients who received patching followed by best clinical care and patients who received atropine followed by best clinical care", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-73", "Keywords": "['Amblyopia','patching','atropine']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000170.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Amblyopia Treatment Study: Occlusion Versus Pharmacologic Therapy for Moderate Amblyopia", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "6", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"MaximumAge": "0", "Description": "In Alzheimer's disease , sleep disruption is one of the most common behavioral problems, occurring in 45 percent of patients. These nocturnal awakenings and agitation lead to considerable burden for caregivers and frequently lead families to the decision of nursing home placement. The proposed study is a randomized, double blind, parallel group, placebo controlled, clinical trial. Placebo will be compared with two doses of melatonin: a 2.5 mg, slow- release preparation and a 10 mg immediate release preparation. One hundred and fifty community-residing AD patients with disrupted sleep will be recruited. Included subjects will meet NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable AD. Prior to study entry, disrupted sleep will be documented by clinical history and by 1 to 2 weeks of recording using wrist activity monitors. The treatment period will last 8 weeks. Rest/activity patterns will be recorded by wrist activity monitors. The primary outcome measure will be the change in nocturnal sleep time from baseline to the end of the treatment phase. Other outcomes also will be examined, including the time awake after sleep onset, sleep latency, sleep efficiency, daytime agitation, and changes in cognition. The relative effectiveness of high and low dose melatonin will be assessed. Adverse events and side effects will be compared by treatment. This study should provide the data necessary to determine whether melatonin is a safe and effective treatment for disrupted sleep associated with AD.", "Title": "Study of Melatonin: Sleep Problems in Alzheimer's Disease", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000171", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000171.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000171", "Summary": "This protocol is a multicenter clinical trial of melatonin for sleep disturbances associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Frequent nocturnal awakening is a common behavioral symptom of AD. Nighttime wandering and agitated behavior may result in injuries and sleep disruption for caregivers. Alternatives are sorely needed to the currently available sleep medications that have marginal efficacy and serious side effects. Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone secreted by the pineal gland. It has soporific effects with oral administration and is well tolerated. It enhances sleep in normal older people. Melatonin also may help sleep disturbances associated with AD; however, this remains to be proven.", "OrgStudyId": "IA0006", "Keywords": "['Alzheimers disease','Sleep disorders','Melatonin']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000171.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "55"},
{"MaximumAge": "0", "Description": "After a 1-month single-blind run in phase, 910 subjects will be titrated, over a period of up to 8 weeks, to target doses of either: 0 (placebo); 24 mg/day galantamine; 16 mg/day galantamine; or 8 mg/day galantamine, in a 2:2:2:1 randomization ratio. Double-blind treatment will continue for a total of 5 months. The change from baseline in ADAS-cog and CIVIC-plus scores at Month 5 will be the primary efficacy endpoints. Tolerability will be evaluated based on adverse event reports, laboratory values, ECG, and vital signs with particular focus on the adverse event rates in the slower titration schedule for 24 mg/day. Efficacy of 24 mg/day and 16 mg/day galantamine will be compared with that of placebo. Information on the dose response relationship of galantamine will be evaluated.", "Title": "Evaluation of Galantamine in the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000172", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000172.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000172", "Summary": "Galantamine is an experimental drug being evaluated in the United States for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Results from previous clinical trials suggest that galantamine may improve cognitive performance in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. It is not a cure for Alzheimer's disease. Nerve cells in the brain responsible for memory and cognitive function communicate using a chemical called acetylcholine. Research has shown that deterioration of cells that produce acetylcholine in the brain affects thought processes. Galantamine is thought to work in two ways to increase the amount of acetylcholine available in the brain. It inhibits an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine and it also stimulates the nicotinic receptors in the brain to release more acetylcholine.", "OrgStudyId": "IA0009", "Keywords": "['Alzheimers disease','Cholinergic agents','Cholinergic agonists','Cholinesterase inhibitors']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000172.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Placebo Controlled Evaluation of Galantamine in the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: Safety and Efficacy Under a Slow-Titration Regimen", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "March 1999", "Description": "This clinical trial will be a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled, parallel-group study of vitamin E and donepezil in 720 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Subjects will be randomized to one of three treatment groups (240 subjects per treatment group): 1) Placebo vitamin E and placebo donepezil plus a multivitamin daily. 2) Vitamin E (2,000 I) and placebo donepezil plus a multivitamin daily.3) Donepezil (10 mg) and placebo vitamin E plus a multivitamin daily. The study will be conducted over three years, with clinical evaluations every 3 months for the first 6 months and then every 6 months. Subjects randomized to donepezil will start a dose of 5 mg daily. Donepezil will be increased to 10 mg after six weeks. Subjects randomized to vitamin E will start at 1,000 I daily. The dose of Vitamin E will be increased to 2,000 I after six weeks. There will be a 12-month recruitment period. The primary endpoint will be time to development of Probable or Possible AD according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Upon determination of a clinical diagnosis of AD, documentation will be sent to the ADCS Coordinating Center and forwarded to the Central Review Committee for verification. Upon verification, of conversion to diagnosis of AD, subjects will stop taking the donepezil study medication or its corresponding placebo, without breaking the blind, and will be offered open label donepezil at a scheduled visit one month after the prior diagnostic visit. Donepezil will be offered to subjects who convert to AD until the subject completes three years from the baseline visit. Based on an estimated incidence of AD of 15% per year, the study has 85% power to detect a 33% or greater reduction in conversion to AD over 3 years. Secondary outcome measures will include change on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-COG), the Neuropsychological Battery, the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR), the Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), ADCS- Activities of Daily Living Inventory (ADCS-ADL), a Pharmacoeconomics scale, and a Quality of Life scale. Compliance will be monitored through the measurement of alpha-tocopherol levels and pill counts at each visit.", "Title": "Memory Impairment Study (Mild Cognitive Impairment Study)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000173", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000173.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000173", "Summary": "The National Institute on Aging (NIA) is launching a nationwide treatment study targeting individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a condition characterized by a memory deficit, but not dementia. An NIA-funded study recently confirmed that MCI is different from both dementia and normal age-related changes in memory. Accurate and early evaluation and treatment of MCI individuals might prevent further cognitive decline, including development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Memory Impairment Study is the first such AD prevention clinical trial carried out by NIH, and will be conducted at 65-80 medical research institutions located in the United States and Canada. This study will test the usefulness of two drugs to slow or stop the conversion from MCI to AD. The trial will evaluate placebo, vitamin E, and donepezil, an investigational agent approved by the Food and Drug Administration for another use. Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) is thought to have antioxidant properties, and was shown in a 1997 study to delay important dementia milestones, such as patients' institutionalization or progression to severe dementia, by about seven months.", "OrgStudyId": "IA0011", "Keywords": "['Mild cognitive impairment','Alzheimers disease','Memory','Donepezil','Vitamin E','Antioxidants','Cholinergic agents','Cholinesterase inhibitors']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000173.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Vitamin E and Donepezil HCL (Aricept) to Delay Clinical Progression From Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's Disease (AD)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "90", "MinimumAge": "55"},
{"MaximumAge": "85", "Title": "Investigation Into Delay to Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease With Exelon (InDDEx)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000174", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000174.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000174", "Summary": "This phase IIIb trial is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 36-month study comparing the length of time of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects taking Exelon vs. placebo. Exelon is currently under review with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. The drug has been cleared for marketing in more than 40 countries for Alzheimer's disease to date, including all 15 member states of the European Union, New Zealand, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. Each subject with MCI will be randomly assigned to treatment with either Exelon or placebo. Subjects assigned to Exelon will receive 1.5 to 6.0 mg bid (twice daily) (3.0 to 12 mg/day) for the majority of the study. At every regular visit scheduled every three months, patients will be given basic efficacy and safety assessments. These assessments will include evaluation of adverse events, vital signs, activities of daily living, and clinical staging scales to determine if the subject may have converted to dementia.", "OrgStudyId": "IA0012", "Keywords": "['Mild cognitive impairment','Alzheimers disease','Memory','Cholinergic agents','Cholinesterase inhibitors']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000174.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "55"}]
