[
{"StartDate": "October 1992", "Description": "Non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), the most common cause of acute optic nerve disease in older persons, causes permanent and severe visual loss. Visual function can be impaired through decreased central visual acuity or peripheral field loss, or both. NAION strikes both eyes in up to 40 percent of affected patients. The incidence of NAION has been estimated at 2.3 per 100,000 persons over the age of 50 years and 0.54 per 100,000 for all ages. Estimates of the number of new cases seen each year in the United States range from a low of approximately 1,500 to a high of 6,000. NAION has been hypothesized to be caused by vascular insufficiency leading to optic nerve head ischemia. There is general agreement that NAION results from transient non-perfusion of nutrient vessels. The wide range of visual field defects and visual loss with NAION can be explained by the extent and number of the blood vessels involved. Anatomical factors appear to contribute to the vascular event initiating NAION. Clinically, the number of discs congenitally lacking a physiological cup in eyes with NAION is higher than expected. Presumably, in eyes with NAION, these discs have small scleral openings that crowd the nerve fibers as they pass through the restricted space in the optic disc and lamina cribrosa, thereby predisposing to an ischemic spiral. One current theory holds that NAION begins as a minor ischemic event that later progresses to a major infarction due to congenitally anomalous optic nerves. The inciting ischemic event leads to local anterior nerve edema, and this causes further ischemia. Optic nerve sheath decompression surgery was reported in 1989 to be of benefit to patients with NAION. The presumed mechanism of action in optic nerve decompression surgery revolved around restoration of impaired blood flow to the optic nerve through reduction of the pressure around the nerve. The Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Decompression Trial (IONDT) was a randomized clinical trial designed to compare the improvements in visual acuity at 6 months in patients assigned to receive surgery with optic nerve sheath decompression with those assigned to careful followup. A cohort of patients, with a baseline visual acuity of better than 20/64 are also being followed to better understand the natural history of the disease, including second eye involvement. Enrollment began in October 1992. Randomization was stratified by clinic, and patients had an equal probability of assignment to surgery or careful followup. All patients are being followed for a minimum of 2 years. The primary outcome is a change of three lines or more in visual acuity at the 6-month followup visit compared with visual acuity measured at the randomization visit. Secondary outcomes include a change in visual acuity beyond 6 months, change in peripheral visual function as measured by automated Humphrey perimetry, local and systemic side effects from treatment, change in quality of life, and other associated morbidity and mortality.", "Title": "Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Decompression Trial (IONDT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000127", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000127.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000127", "Summary": "To assess the safety and efficacy of optic nerve sheath decompression surgery for non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION).", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-26", "Keywords": "['Non-arteritic Ischemic Optic Neuropathy']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000127.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "50"},
{"StartDate": "June 1996", "Description": "About 25 percent of all persons in the United States are myopic. The most common form of myopia is childhood myopia, which begins after age 6 and progresses rapidly until age 16. Myopia progression results from excessive growth of the eye, primarily by enlargement of the vitreous chamber. Excessive elongation of the eye is a major risk factor for retinal detachment. Previous prospective studies failed to show that use of bifocals was effective in slowing myopia progression. However, these studies did not separate subjects by near-point phoria before randomization. Retrospective studies by David Goss indicated that bifocals slowed myopia progression by almost 50 percent in children with near-point esophoria but had no effect on children with exophoria. A small, prospective pilot study, completed by the investigators of this trial, also supported the hypothesis that bifocals slow myopia progression in children with near-point esophoria. Thirty-two myopic children, all of whom showed near-point esophoria, were enrolled in this 18-month study. Twenty-eight children completed the study, with 14 randomized into bifocals and 14 into single-vision lenses. Cycloplegic automated refraction was performed every 6 months. Over the course of the whole study, there was a small, statistically insignificant difference in the rates of myopia progression: 0.57 diopters per year (D/yr) (S.E. = 0.11) for those in single-vision lenses compared with 0.36 D/yr (S.E. = 0.12) for those in bifocals (p = 0.26). However, significant seasonal effects in myopia progression were demonstrated, and the results also suggested that the beneficial effects of bifocals may take several months to develop. During the first 6 months, which included most of the school year, myopia progression was rapid in both the bifocal group (0.61 D/yr) and the single-vision group (0.68 D/yr). During the second 6 months, which included all of the summer vacation, myopia progression was slow in both groups, 0.32 and 0.26 D/yr for bifocal wearers and single-vision wearers, respectively. During the last 6 months, i.e., the second school year, myopia progressed slowly in the bifocal wearers (0.37 D/yr) but rapidly (0.80 D/yr) in single-vision wearers. A repeated-measure analysis of variance demonstrated a significant seasonal effect (p < 0.002) and a significant interaction between season and type of correction (p < 0.043). The apparent effectiveness of bifocals in children with near-point esophoria and the lack of effectiveness in other children may be explained by a greater lag of accommodation in children with esophoria. This lag might cause a slightly blurred retinal image that the bifocal may sharpen. Other mechanisms might also be involved. Eighty or more myopic children, all with near-point esophoria as measured at baseline with von Graefe prisms through a current myopic correction placed in a phoropter, will be randomly assigned to wear either single-vision spectacle lenses or lenses with +1.50 D add in a flat-top 28-mm segment. Subjects will visit one of two sites, either a private optometry practice in Tulsa or the optometry clinic at Northeastern State University, every 6 months. Data collected at each visit will include automated refraction after cycloplegia with 1 percent tropicamide, biometry with A-scan, and estimates of the amount of study and other close work by means of questionnaires administered to the subjects and their parents. We will also obtain measures of the degree of myopia in the biological parents. The myopic correction will be changed if the spherical component of the refraction in either eye has changed by 0.5 diopter or more or if any change in cylinder power or axis improves vision in either eye by three letters or more. The study will continue for 30 months and will include six visits by each subject.", "Title": "A Trial of Bifocals in Myopic Children With Esophoria", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000128", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000128", "Summary": "To test the hypothesis that correction with bifocal spectacle lenses rather than single-vision lenses will slow the progression of myopia in children with near-point esophoria. The primary outcome variable is cycloplegic refraction as measured with an automated refractor. Axial length is measured with ultrasound in order to test the corollary hypothesis that use of bifocals will slow ocular growth in these myopic children. We will also examine the amount of close work performed by subjects and the degree of parental myopia as factors that may influence myopia progression.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-27", "Keywords": "['Near-point Esophoria']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000128.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000128.txt", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "12", "MinimumAge": "6"},
{"StartDate": "April 1981", "Description": "Approximately 11 million Americans have myopia that can be corrected with eyeglasses or contact lenses. Some of these people may also be candidates for radial keratotomy (RK), a procedure that aims to correct or reduce myopia by surgery that flattens the corneal curvature. Keratotomy was first performed by surgeons in Europe and the United States in the late 1800s, and the basic optical and mechanical principles of the operation were defined in the 1940s and 1950s by the Japanese doctors T. Sato and K. Akiyama, who used anterior and posterior corneal incisions. The posterior incisions damaged the cornea, and the procedure was modified in the Soviet Union by doctors Fyodorov and V. Durnev to include incisions in only the anterior cornea. Since its introduction into the United States in 1978, numerous ophthalmologists have modified the procedure by introducing technical and surgical improvements such as ultrasonic methods to measure the thickness of the cornea and the use of diamond-bladed micrometer knives to make the incisions. However, scientific assessment of RK lagged behind growing public and professional interest in the procedure. In 1980, in response to widespread concern about the long-term safety and efficacy of RK, a group of ophthalmic surgeons approached the National Eye Institute with a proposal for a multicenter clinical trial that would evaluate the potential benefits and risks of this procedure. The Prospective Evaluation of Radial Keratotomy study, involving 435 patients and 99 pilot patients, was a clinical trial designed to evaluate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of one technique of radial keratotomy. The procedure was evaluated by comparing a patient's refractive error and uncorrected vision before and after surgery. The more myopic eye received surgery first. Patients were required to wait 1 year before having the operation on the second eye. The surgical technique was standardized, consisting of eight centrifugal radial incisions made manually with a diamond micrometer knife. The diameter of the central, uncut, clear zone was determined by the preoperative spherical equivalent cycloplegic refraction (-2.00 to -3.12 D = 4.0 mm; -3.25 to -4.3 D = 3.5 mm; -4.50 to -8.00 D = 3.0 mm). The blade length, which determined the depth of the incision, was set at 100 percent of the thinnest of four intraoperative ultrasonic corneal thickness readings taken paracentrally at the 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-o'clock meridians just outside the mark delineating the clear zone. The incisions were made from the edge of the trephine mark to the limbal vascular arcade and were spaced equidistantly around the cornea. Patients were examined preoperatively and after surgery at 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, annually for 5 years, and at 10 years. Examinations in the morning and evening of the same day were done at 3 months, 1 year, 3 years, and 11 years in a subset of the patients to test for diurnal fluctuation of vision and refraction. The primary outcome variables measured at each visit was the uncorrected and spectacle-corrected visual acuity and the refractive error with the pupil dilated and undilated. The corneal shape was measured with central keratometry and photokeratoscopy. Endothelial function was evaluated using specular microscopy. A slit-lamp microscope examination was made to check for complications from the incisions. Contrast sensitivity was tested in a subset of patients. Patient motivation and satisfaction were studied with psychometric questionnaires at baseline, 1 year, 5-6 years, and 10 years.", "Title": "Prospective Evaluation of Radial Keratotomy (PERK) Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000129", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000129.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000129", "Summary": "To determine whether radial keratotomy is effective in reducing myopia. To detect complications of the surgery. To discover patient characteristics and surgical factors affecting the results. To determine the long-term safety and efficacy of the procedure.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-28", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000129.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "21"},
{"StartDate": "February 1990", "Description": "Endophthalmitis is a serious ocular infection that can result in blindness. Approximately 70 percent of cases occur as a direct complication of intraocular surgery. Current management requires culture of intraocular contents and administration of an antibiotic. Vitrectomy surgery, which may help to manage endophthalmitis by removing infecting organisms and their toxins, has been shown to be of value in various animal models of endophthalmitis. However, human studies have not shown an advantage to vitrectomy with intraocular antibiotics compared with intraocular antibiotics alone. In all large comparison studies to date, eyes with the worst initial presentations were the ones selected for vitrectomy. Because of the selection bias involved in determining which cases received vitrectomy, existing clinical information on the efficacy of the procedure for treating endophthalmitis is inconclusive. Determining the role of initial vitrectomy and the benefit or lack of benefit to certain subgroups of patients will help the clinician in the management of endophthalmitis. In addition, although systemic antibiotics have long been used in the management of endophthalmitis, there has been little evidence to support their efficacy, but there have been many reports of toxic systemic effects. In view of this, the role of systemic antibiotics in the management of endophthalmitis will be assessed. Endophthalmitis Vitrectomy Study (EVS) patients were randomized to one of two standard treatment strategies for the management of bacterial endophthalmitis. Eyes received either (1) initial pars plana vitrectomy with intravitreal antibiotics, followed by retap and reinjection at 36-60 hours for eyes that did poorly as defined in the study or (2) initial anterior chamber and vitreous tap/biopsy with injection of intravitreal antibiotics, followed by vitrectomy and reinjection at 36-60 hours in eyes doing poorly. In addition, all eyes were randomized to either treatment or no treatment with intravenous antibiotics. Study end points were visual acuity and clarity of ocular media, the latter assessed both clinically and photographically. Each patient's initial end point assessment occurred at 3 months, after which procedures to improve vision, such as late vitrectomy for nonclearing ocular media, were an option. The final outcome assessment occurred at 9 months. Multiple centers cooperated by enrolling 420 eyes during the 42-month recruitment period.", "Title": "Endophthalmitis Vitrectomy Study (EVS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000130", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000130.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000130", "Summary": "To determine the role of initial pars plana vitrectomy in the management of postoperative bacterial endophthalmitis. To determine the role of intravenous antibiotics in the management of bacterial endophthalmitis. To determine which factors, other than treatment, predict outcome in postoperative bacterial endophthalmitis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-29", "Keywords": "['Bacterial Endophthalmitis']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000130.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "August 1988", "Description": "Central vein occlusion is a common retinal vascular disorder with potentially blinding complications. The two major complications are reduced central vision caused by macular edema and neovascular glaucoma caused by iris neovascularization. Other clinical trials have shown that laser photocoagulation is an effective treatment for complications found in diabetic retinopathy and branch vein occlusion, which have some features in common with CVO: neovascularization and reduced visual acuity caused by macular edema occur in all three disorders. Evidence from small-scale studies suggests that a grid pattern of photocoagulation reduces macular edema in CVO patients, although the associated changes in visual acuity are variable. The CVOS is a detailed investigation of grid pattern photocoagulation in a larger randomized group of patients. Eligible patients were divided into four groups: Group N: Eyes with extensive retinal ischemia (at least 10 disc areas of nonperfusion) were randomly assigned to receive panretinal photocoagulation or nontreatment unless iris neovascularization developed. Group M: Eyes with visual loss ascribable to macular edema were randomly assigned to receive grid-pattern photocoagulation or nontreatment. Group P: Eyes with relatively perfused retinas were followed to provide information about the natural history of the disease. Group I: Indeterminate eyes in which the retina could not be visualized accurately because of hemorrhage were followed in a natural history study. Green argon laser with a slit lamp delivery system was used for all treatments. Photographic documentation of retinal changes was obtained at entry, post-treatment, and at specified followup visits for a period of at least 3 years. The frequency of followup visits varied according to the group to which the CVO patient was assigned. Visual acuity, the primary outcome factor in the group with macular edema, was measured according to a modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol at each visit.", "Title": "Central Vein Occlusion Study (CVOS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000131", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000131.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000131", "Summary": "To determine whether photocoagulation therapy can help prevent iris neovascularization in eyes with central vein occlusion (CVO) and evidence of ischemic retina. To assess whether grid-pattern photocoagulation therapy will reduce loss of central visual acuity due to macular edema secondary to CVO. To develop new data describing the course and prognosis for eyes with CVO.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-30", "Keywords": "['Central Vein Occlusion','Ischemic Retina']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000131.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "21"},
{"StartDate": "October 1992", "Description": "Glaucoma is a common disease in older adults. All present treatment aims at reduction of the intraocular pressure, but indications for therapy are not well defined. Furthermore, it is unclear whether intraocular pressure influences the natural history of glaucoma. Against this background, the primary aim of the study is of central importance to patients with manifest and suspect glaucoma. Glaucoma has few subjective symptoms during a long period early in the disease, but damage is irreversible once it occurs. Early diagnosis and rapid detection of progression are of paramount importance in limiting this damage, whether through pressure reduction or in some other way. The effectiveness, if any, of lowering the intraocular pressure in glaucoma requires evaluation by controlled treatment trials. The Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial (EMGT) is the first large, controlled, randomized clinical trial to evaluate the effect of lowering the intraocular pressure on the progression of newly detected, open-angle glaucoma. This study will compare glaucoma progression in initially treated versus untreated patients with newly detected open-angle glaucoma and will allow quantification of the effect of immediate IOP-lowering treatment on progression during the followup period. The EMGT is a collaborative effort that involves a Clinical Center at the Department of Ophthalmology of Malmo University Hospital at the University of Lund, Sweden, and its Satellite Center in Helsingborg, Sweden; an independent Data Center at the Department of Preventive Medicine, University Medical Center at Stony Brook, New York; and a Disc Photography Reading Center at the Department of Ophthalmology in Lund at the University of Lund. The study was initiated with support from the Swedish Medical Research Council. Recruitment for the study has been completed. The 255 patients were identified by an extensive, population-based screening of successive age cohorts as well as by clinical referral. The diagnosis was confirmed through Humphrey perimetry at two postscreening visits to the Clinical Center or Satellite Center. Eligible patients who agreed to participate had two additional visits for collection of baseline data. They were randomized to treatment with the beta blocker Betaxolol and argon laser trabeculoplasty (treated group) or to no initial treatment (control group) with close followup of both groups. Patients are followed for a minimum of 4 years to assess the development of glaucoma progression. They are seen every 3 months to collect visual field, IOP, and other data. Disc photographs are taken every 6 months. Technicians and disc photograph graders are masked regarding treatment assignment. Additional followup visits are held to confirm visual field progression and IOP elevation (>25 mm Hg in treated group, >35 mm Hg in control group). Patients in the treated group receive Xalantan whenever IOP exceeds 25 mm Hg at more than one visit; patients in the control group will receive Xalantan whenever IOP reaches 35 mm Hg or higher during the trial. If IOP remains high, individualized treatment is given. All patients continue to be followed to monitor the development of end points and will be analyzed in their originally assigned groups. The study outcome is glaucoma progression, which is based on specific criteria derived from analyses of Humphrey visual fields and masked evaluations of disc photographs. The perimetric outcome is defined as statistically significant deterioration (p < 0.05) of the same three or more test points in Pattern Deviation Change Probability Maps in three consecutive C30-2 Humphrey fields. Optic disc progression is determined by the following: - The presence of definite change (detected by comparison of followup photographs with baseline) by flicker chronoscopy in two followup photographs from the same visit, with independent confirmation by side-by-side gradings. - Final confirmation of change toward progression, by flicker chronoscopy and by side-by-side gradings, at a different followup visit.", "Title": "Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial (EMGT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000132", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000132", "Summary": "The primary purpose is to compare the effect of immediate therapy to lower the intraocular pressure (IOP) versus late or no treatment on the progression of newly detected open-angle glaucoma, as measured by increasing visual field loss and/or optic disc changes. The secondary purposes are to determine the extent of IOP reduction attained by treatment, to explore factors that may influence glaucoma progression, and to describe the natural history of newly detected glaucoma.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-31", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000132.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000132.txt", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "80", "MinimumAge": "50"},
{"StartDate": "January 1986", "Description": "ROP is a disease of the eyes of prematurely born infants in which the retinal blood vessels increase in number and branch excessively, sometimes leading to hemorrhage or scarring. Before the establishment of this study in 1985, more than 500 infants annually were blinded by ROP in the United States alone. More than 30 years ago, the National Institutes of Health sponsored a clinical trial that showed that if premature babies are given oxygen only as needed, the number of infants who develop ROP drops dramatically. Subsequently, hospitals cut back on giving excessive oxygen routinely to premature babies. But, with improvements in neonatal care over the last two decades, the number of babies at risk is increasing as survival rates for smaller premature infants improve. The lower the birth weight, the higher the incidence and severity of ROP. In a more recent NEI-supported study at the University of Miami, blood oxygen levels of very low birth-weight infants were monitored continuously by use of transcutaneous measurements as long as oxygen therapy was needed. The study showed that there is no statistically significant difference between the rates of ROP in infants monitored on continuous oxygen therapy and in those monitored only when they were receiving oxygen in excess of 40 percent. The Supplemental Therapeutic Oxygen for Prethreshold ROP (STOP-ROP) trial, also funded by the NEI, studied whether a slight increase in oxygen therapy would prevent the progression of moderate ROP to ROP severe enough to require surgical treatment. This intervention made little or no difference in outcomes. Likewise, another NEI-sponsored clinical trial (LIGHT-ROP) demonstrated absence of protective effect on ROP by limiting light exposure to newborn premature infants. These studies have led to the conclusion that factors other than oxygen or light exposure must be involved in causing ROP. In most infants who develop ROP, the disease spontaneously subsides, permitting development of normal vision. But other infants who progress to a severe form of ROP are in danger of becoming permanently blind. Although the cause of ROP is not fully explained, scientists are seeking ways to treat ROP successfully and to find the right time in the progression of the disease to use treatment. Cryotherapy, which destroys the fringe of the retina through freezing, is the only treatment so far that has been demonstrated to provide substantial benefit to these eyes. The multicenter trial of cryotherapy for ROP enrolled more than 4,000 premature infants who weighed no more than 1,250 grams at birth. This category of infants is at the greatest risk of developing ROP. The eyes of the infants enrolled in the study were examined at predetermined intervals while the subjects were still in the intensive care nursery. After the pupils were dilated with eye drops, the eyes were examined by an ophthalmologist using a binocular indirect ophthalmoscope to visualize the developing retina. The natural history of the condition of each infant's retina was recorded. When examination disclosed the severe form of ROP (threshold ROP) in both eyes, and the parents gave informed consent, one of the infant's eyes was randomly selected to receive cryotherapy. In this technique, a cryoprobe was used to freeze and thus destroy the peripheral extent of the retina, thereby arresting the development of the blood vessels growing wildly toward it. Outcome of the therapy was assessed at 3 months and 12 months following randomization by an extensive examination that included photography of the interior of both the treated and the control eyes. The 12-month exam also measured visual function with preferential-looking techniques. Such measurements allowed correlations between fundus photographs and visual function and a comparison of visual function for treated versus control eyes. Neither the trained photograph readers who evaluated the pictures from both eyes nor the specially trained vision testers knew which eyes had received cryotherapy. Additional assessments of visual acuity and retinal status have been made approximately each year up to the present. Currently (2001), preparations are being made for a 15-year outcome study that will conclude by 2003.", "Title": "Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity (CRYO-ROP) - Outcome Study of Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000133", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000133.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000133", "Summary": "To determine the safety and efficacy of trans-scleral cryotherapy of the peripheral retina in certain low birth-weight infants with retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) for reducing blindness from ROP. To determine the long-term outcome for eyes that had severe (\"threshold\") ROP, both with and without cryotherapy.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-32", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000133.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "December 1992", "Description": "CMV retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with AIDS and is estimated to affect 35 to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV retinitis is a progressive disorder, the end result of which is total retinal destruction and blindness. At the time of this trial, drugs approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CMV retinitis were ganciclovir (Cytovene) and foscarnet (Foscavir). Although most retinitis responds well to initial therapy with systemically administered drugs, given enough time, nearly all patients will suffer a relapse of the retinitis. Relapsed retinitis generally responds to reinduction and maintenance therapy, but the interval between successive relapses progressively shortens. The CRRT addressed the issue of the management of relapsed CMV retinitis. The CRRT was a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing three regimens in patients with relapsed retinitis. Patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis that had relapsed or was nonresponsive to initial therapy were randomized to one of three regimens: (1) intravenous foscarnet reinduction at 90 mg/kg twice daily for 2 weeks, followed by maintenance therapy at 120 mg/kg/day; (2) intravenous ganciclovir reinduction at 5 mg/kg twice daily for 2 weeks followed by maintenance at 10 mg/kg/day; and (3) combination therapy, wherein patients continued their previous therapy and were reinduced with the second drug and then placed on maintenance therapy with foscarnet at 90 mg/kg/day and ganciclovir at 5 mg/kg/day.", "Title": "Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--Cytomegalovirus Retinitis Retreatment Trial (CRRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000134", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000134.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000134", "Summary": "To compare the relative merits of three therapeutic regimens in patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis who have been previously treated but whose retinitis either is nonresponsive or has relapsed. These three therapeutic regimens were (1) foscarnet, (2) high-dose ganciclovir, and (3) combination foscarnet and ganciclovir. To compare two treatment strategies in patients with relapsed or nonresponsive CMV retinitis: (1) continuing the same anti-CMV drug or (2) switching to the alternate drug.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-33", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000134.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Cytomegalovirus Retinitis Retreatment Trial", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"}]
