[
{"StartDate": "October 1976", "Description": "Vitrectomy may not only remove vitreous hemorrhage but also prevent or relieve traction on the retina from contraction of the fibrovascular membranes that characterize severe proliferative diabetic retinopathy. It is important to determine whether early intervention with vitrectomy has a better visual outcome or instead produces a rate of serious complications higher than the rate associated with conventional management. Two randomized trials were carried out in the DRVS among patients ages 18 to 70 years who had either insulin-dependent or non-insulin-dependent diabetes. In the first trial, the 616 patients who were recruited had severe visual loss from recent severe vitreous hemorrhage in at least one eye. Eligible eyes were randomly assigned either to early vitrectomy or to conventional management. In the conventional management group, vitrectomy was carried out 1 year later if hemorrhage persisted; vitrectomy was carried out sooner if retinal detachment -involving the center of the macula occurred. In the second trial, 381 patients were recruited, all of whom had severe fibrovascular proliferations and useful vision in at least one eye. Eligible eyes were assigned either to early vitrectomy or to conventional management. Conventional management included photocoagulation when indicated, with vitrectomy if a severe vitreous hemorrhage occurred and failed to clear spontaneously during a 6-month waiting period or if retinal detachment involving the center of the macula -occurred. After randomization and treatment, all patients were examined at 6-month intervals for 2 years and annually thereafter. Comparisons of visual acuity distributions between experimental and control groups were made.", "Title": "Diabetic Retinopathy Vitrectomy Study (DRVS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000154", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000154.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000154", "Summary": "To compare two therapies, early vitrectomy and conventional management, for recent severe vitreous hemorrhage secondary to diabetic retinopathy. Conventional management includes vitrectomy if hemorrhage fails to clear during a waiting period of 6 to 12 months or if retinal detachment involving the center of the macula develops at any time. To compare early vitrectomy and conventional management in eyes that have good vision but a poor prognosis because they are threatened with hemorrhage or retinal detachment from very severe proliferative retinopathy. To study the natural history of severe proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-56", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000154.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "70", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "June 1995", "Description": "Keratoconus is a bilateral, asymmetric, chronic, progressive ectasia of the cornea characterized by steepening and distortion of the cornea, thinning of the apical cornea, corneal scarring, and treatment-related sequelae, such as abrasions from contact lenses and surgical complications. Patients experience distorted vision that worsens with disease progression. Their vision is typically corrected with spectacles early in the disease and, later, with rigid contact lenses. Some patients eventually undergo corneal transplantation in one or both eyes. Keratoconus affects people in their prime earning years and profoundly affects their lives. Previous large-scale studies of keratoconus have focused on incidence and prevalence, etiologies, or the clinical management of keratoconus. Few have characterized the course of the disease and risk factors for its progression in large samples of keratoconus patients. The incidence of vision-threatening corneal scarring in keratoconus is unknown. Patient's most frequent questions--how rapidly their keratoconus will progress, how bad their vision will become, whether they will need corneal surgery, how successful their contact lenses will be--cannot be answered on the basis of the current body of knowledge. The need for a prospective, observational study of keratoconus patients is great. Results from this study will address keratoconus patient's unanswered questions and will enable eye care practitioners to manage this complex ocular disease better. The Collaborative Longitudinal Evaluation of Keratoconus (CLEK) Study is a multicenter, observational study of 1,209 keratoconus patients followed for 3 years. Patients are examined annually. Study measures include visual acuity, patient-reported quality of life, manifest refraction, keratometry, photodocumentation of the cornea to identify central corneal scarring, photodocumentation of the flattest contact lens that just clears the cornea, slit lamp biomicroscopy, and corneal topography. In rigid contact lens wearers, the fluorescein pattern of the patient's habitual contact lenses is photodocumented. Patients are examined at 15 clinical centers. The clinical centers enrolled 1,209 patients in 12 months.", "Title": "The Collaborative Longitudinal Evaluation of Keratoconus (CLEK) Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000155", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000155.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000155", "Summary": "To describe the clinical course of keratoconus and to describe the relationships among its visual and physiological manifestations, including high- and low-contrast visual acuity, corneal curvature, slit lamp biomicroscopic findings, corneal scarring, and quality of life. To identify risk factors and protective factors that influence the severity and progression of keratoconus.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-57", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000155.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "12"},
{"StartDate": "July 1995", "Description": "Despite progress during the past decade in treatment of ROP, this disease still poses a significant (approximately 2.1 percent) risk of blindness to extremely low birth-weight (<1,251 grams) preterm infants. Current estimates indicate that about 27,000 infants of extremely low birth weight are born annually, of which 74 percent will survive. As techniques of managing smaller and less mature preterm infants continue to improve, it is expected that the number of infants at risk for blindness will continue to increase. For infants weighing less than 1,251 grams at birth, the Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity (CRYO-ROP) Study has shown that the risk of developing severe, acute (threshold) ROP is 6 percent. Although cryotherapy, when applied at the time of threshold ROP, reduces the rate of unfavorable visual outcome, 35 percent of eyes that develop this level of severe, acute disease are blind 1 year after treatment. Moreover, cryotherapy is destructive. Even when cryotherapy prevents progression to retinal detachment, it is associated with peripheral retinal destruction and may, in some cases, be associated with subnormal central vision due to high myopia and/or macular scarring. Corrective surgical treatments for retinal detachment caused by ROP have proven to be of little visual benefit. A preventive treatment for ROP that is safe, efficacious, easily applied, and inexpensive is desirable. The investigators hypothesize that reducing the amount of light that reaches the eyes of preterm infants may be effective in preventing ROP. Although previous reports on the use of light reduction to the eyes of preterm infants in the nursery have produced conflicting results, there are sufficient reasons to believe that this strategy may be effective in reducing the incidence and severity of ROP. These reasons center on the role of light in the production of destructive free radicals. Supplemental oxygen produces the same free radicals, and the two mechanisms may be additive. In this masked, controlled study, infants weighing less than 1,251 grams at birth were prospectively randomized within 24 hours of birth to wear goggles or not to wear goggles. Goggles contain 97 percent near neutral density filters and were worn until the infant reached either 31 weeks gestational age or 4 weeks postnatal age, whichever was longer. The goggled and nongoggled infants were exposed to the same ambient light conditions within any given Study Center. Eyes of all infants were examined on a prescribed schedule by certified examiners to determine the incidence of any confirmed ROP. The primary objective of this study is to answer the following question: Does light reduction to the eyes of extremely low birth-weight infants decrease the incidence of any confirmed ROP (at least 3 contiguous clock hours, any stage, any zone)? The primary end points are therefore ROP or full vascularization. The secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the following question: Does light reduction to the eyes of extremely low birth-weight infants decrease the incidence of more severe ROP (prethreshold ROP -- the secondary end point)? The study has recruited approximately 400 infants, equally divided into goggle-wearing and control group. Since randomization must occur within 24 hours of birth, the investigators anticipate a mortality rate of between 10 percent and 20 percent of enrollees prior to outcome. The study is in the followup phase with regular ophthalmologic exams until either ROP regression or normal full retinal vascularization is established. A final exam occurs at adjusted age 6 months.", "Title": "The Effects of Light Reduction on Retinopathy of Prematurity (Light-ROP)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000156", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000156", "Summary": "To evaluate the effect of ambient light reduction on the incidence of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP).", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-58", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000156.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000156.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "April 1982", "Description": "Cataract is one of the most common causes of impaired vision as well as the third leading cause of blindness in the United States. Cataract surgery is one of the safest and most successful of all operations. The National Eye Institute has estimated that if the progression of cataract could be slowed enough to delay the need for surgery by even 10 years, the current annual number could be reduced by 45 percent. Little is known about the relative importance of various potential risk factors in the development of cataract. Most current information on risk factors has come from anecdotal reports or from relatively small case-control studies. One major project, the Framingham Eye Study, has identified several factors that were significantly associated with subsequent cataract formation, including diabetes and dietary factors. Diabetes has long been thought to increase the risk of developing cataract. Recently, aspirin has been proposed as a drug that can prevent cataract formation or slow its progression. Aspirin may affect tryptophan levels in patients with cataract, or it may inhibit aldose reductase, an enzyme associated with the development of diabetic cataract. Thus, data from this study sought to determine whether one 325-mg aspirin tablet, taken on alternate days, protects against cataract formation. The data also sought to reveal other additional cataract risk factors that emerge after simultaneous controlling for other variables. The other primary objective of this trial was to assess the antioxidant effects of beta-carotene (50 mg on alternate days) on cataract development. In addition, factors that have been suggested to be cataractogenic were assessed in prospective cohort studies. These factors included age, blood pressure, blood cholesterol, height, diabetes, medication use, cigarette smoking, and history of previous eye trauma or surgery. In addition, the possible associations between history of vitamin E and selenium intake and cataract were explored. This trial was part of the Physicians Health Study, an ongoing, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of aspirin in the prevention of cardiovascular mortality and of beta-carotene in the prevention of cancer. Following randomization, each of the 22,071 physicians enrolled was assigned to one of four groups to take either aspirin or its placebo and beta-carotene or its placebo. Follow-up questionnaires were sent 6 and 12 months after randomization and every 12 months thereafter. The randomized aspirin component of the trial was terminated early (January 1988), after an average followup of approximately 5 years, because of a statistically extreme 44 percent reduced risk of a first myocardial infarction in the aspirin group. Since this study is conducted by mail among physicians nationwide, examinations cannot be performed on all patients to determine when they have reached an end point. Reported diagnoses of cataract are confirmed by medical record review. The primary analysis will be of incidence of cataract in the aspirin and placebo groups. In addition, the Cox proportional hazards model will be used to determine whether there is a difference in time to cataract diagnosis between the two groups. It has been postulated that the potent antioxidant properties of beta-carotene might make it effective in preventing cataract development. The investigators will thus determine whether there is a difference in the numbers of cataracts between the beta-carotene/placebo groups and the aspirin/placebo groups.", "Title": "Randomized Trial of Aspirin and Cataracts in U.S. Physicians", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000157", "Gender": "Male", "FileName": "NCT00000157.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000157", "Summary": "To determine whether 325 mg of aspirin taken on -alternate days reduces the risk of developing cataract among male U.S. physicians who were aged 40 to 84 in 1982. To identify potential risk factors for cataract development, such as age, blood pressure, blood cholesterol, height, diabetes, medication use, and history of previous eye trauma or surgery.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-59", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000157.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Terminated", "MaximumAge": "84", "MinimumAge": "40"},
{"StartDate": "February 1979", "Description": "In each randomized trial conducted by the MPS Group, focal laser photocoagulation was compared to observation without treatment. Patients were assigned to laser treatment or to observation with equal probability. The first set of MPS randomized trials, the Argon Study, focused on the effectiveness of photocoagulation with argon blue-green laser in eyes with discrete extrafoveal choroidal neovascularization. The study investigators, who began recruiting patients in 1979, estimated that 550 patients with AMD and 750 with POH would be required. Follow-up was to continue for 5 years to determine whether argon laser photocoagulation treatment could prevent or delay visual acuity loss in these patients. After the initiation of the Argon Study, a new krypton red laser became available. The new wavelength offered theoretical advantages over the argon laser for treating CNV that extended inside the FAZ of the macula. The Krypton Study design was analogous to the Argon Study, with the investigation of three underlying conditions, except that CNV was closer to the FAZ center. The third set of MPS clinical trials, the Foveal Study, was designed to determine whether laser photocoagulation was effective for delaying or preventing further visual acuity loss in AMD patients who have subfoveal CNV. Among patients assigned to laser treatment in the Foveal Study, argon laser treatment was compared with krypton red laser treatment of these lesions. The investigators originally projected that about 350 patients would be required for each clinical trial of the Foveal Study.", "Title": "Macular Photocoagulation Study (MPS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000158", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000158.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000158", "Summary": "To evaluate laser treatment of choroidal neovascularization (CNV) through randomized, controlled clinical trials. The Macular Photocoagulation Study (MPS) consisted of three sets of randomized, controlled clinical trials. Change in best-corrected visual acuity from baseline was the primary outcome for all MPS trials. Other measures of vision are evaluated in each set of trials. The purpose of each is described below. Argon Study: To determine whether argon blue-green laser photocoagulation of leaking abnormal blood vessels in choroidal neovascular membranes outside the fovea (200 to 2,500 microns from the center of the foveal avascular zone [FAZ]) is of benefit in preventing or delaying loss of central vision in patients with age-related (senile) macular degeneration (AMD), presumed ocular histoplasmosis (POH), and idiopathic neovascular membranes (INVM). A separate trial was conducted for each of the three underlying conditions. Krypton Study: To determine whether krypton red laser photocoagulation of choroidal neovascular lesions with the posterior border 1 to 199 microns from the center of the FAZ is of benefit in preventing or delaying large losses of visual acuity in patients with AMD, POH, and INVM. A separate trial was conducted for each of the three underlying conditions. Foveal Study: To determine whether laser photocoagulation is of benefit in preventing or delaying further visual acuity loss in patients with new (never treated) or recurrent (previously treated with laser photocoagulation) choroidal neovascularization under the center of the FAZ. Two separate trials, one for each type of lesion, were carried out.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-60", "Keywords": "['photocoagulation','argon blue-green laser','krypton red laser']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000158.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "August 1983", "Description": "During the last two decades, vision researchers have studied intensively the role of the enzyme aldose reductase (AR) in diabetic cataract and in other diabetic complications. The potentially damaging effects of AR in diabetes were first discovered in the lens fiber cells. In these cells, the enzyme catalyzes the reduction of high levels of glucose to sorbitol through the polyol pathway and initiates a sequence of events that eventually results in opacification of the lens. Because sorbitol (a sugar alcohol) and fructose (a subsequent product of glucose metabolism) cannot readily diffuse across cell membranes, they become trapped in lens fiber cells. There they accumulate at unusually high levels and exert a significant osmotic stress, causing an influx of water and swelling of the lens fibers. Major electrolytic and osmotic changes then occur that lead to lens opacity. More recently, the detection of AR in the pericytes of retinal capillaries -- cells that are involved very early in the evolution of diabetic retinopathy -- suggests that this enzyme may also play a role in the pathogenesis of this disorder. Scientists now know that AR is present in nerve tissue, and they speculate that in diabetes it induces the depletion of myo -inositol, which leads to the lessening of nerve conduction velocity in diabetic neuropathy. Chemicals that inhibit aldose reductase have proved effective in preventing damage to the lens, in preventing thickening of retinal capillary basement membranes in diabetic animals, and in improving nerve conduction velocity values in patients with diabetic neuropathy. Therefore, it is possible that AR inhibitors also may be able to prevent, delay, or halt the development or progression of diabetic retinopathy. To test this hypothesis, an AR inhibitor developed by Pfizer Inc., sorbinil, was studied in this clinical trial. (Other AR inhibitors underwent study in clinical trials sponsored by Ayerst and Alcon.) Initially, 402 patients were randomized into the double-masked treatment period using a dosage schedule of one 250-mg tablet daily. In 1985, recruitment was voluntarily halted by Pfizer because of several serious hypersensitivity reactions among patients taking sorbinil in clinical trials in the United States and Europe. In November 1985, recruitment resumed, using a titrated dosage schedule of 25 mg daily for 2 weeks, followed by 75 mg daily for 2 weeks, then 250 mg daily for the duration. A total of 497 patients participated in the study. Followup visits were scheduled weekly for the first 4 weeks, monthly for the next 2 months, and every 3 months thereafter. For patients assigned to the titration protocol, additional visits were made at weeks 5 and 6. A complete history was recorded and a physical examination was conducted every 15 months; electrocardiogram was recorded every 6 months. In addition, patients were cautioned to note any signs of hypersensitivity. Efficacy visits, scheduled at 9-month intervals after the first visit at 12 months, included fundus photographs, visual acuity examinations according to the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), red blood cell sorbitol measure, and assessment of coronary risk factor classification. The Sorbinil Retinopathy Trial (SRT) was a unique collaboration between private industry and the Federal government in designing, funding, and conducting a multicenter, randomized clinical trial. Pfizer Inc. supported 10 of the 11 participating Clinical Centers, provided the medication, and funded the Data Coordinating Center and Fundus Photograph Reading Center. The National Eye Institute funded the Policy, Data, and Safety Monitoring Committee and its own participating Clinical Center.", "Title": "Sorbinil Retinopathy Trial (SRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000159", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000159.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000159", "Summary": "To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the investigational drug sorbinil, an aldose reductase inhibitor, in preventing the development of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy in persons with insulin-dependent diabetes.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-61", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000159.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "56", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "January 1972", "Description": "By the 1950s, diabetic retinopathy had become a leading cause of blindness and visual disability in the United States. The use of photocoagulation to treat proliferative retinopathy gained widespread use in ophthalmic practice following its introduction in 1959. However, only a few studies of photocoagulation incorporated any of the basic principles of controlled clinical trials, and these involved inadequate numbers of patients. Consequently, there has been inadequate evidence of the actual value of the procedure. Because of the clinical importance of diabetic retinopathy and the increasing use of photocoagulation in its management, the Diabetic Retinopathy Study (DRS) was begun in 1971. This randomized, controlled clinical trial involved more than 1,700 patients enrolled at 15 medical centers. One eye of each patient was randomly assigned to immediate photocoagulation and the other to followup without treatment, regardless of the course followed by either eye. The eye chosen for photocoagulation was randomly assigned to either of two treatment techniques, one using an argon laser and the other a xenon arc photocoagulator. Patients were followed at 4-month intervals according to a protocol that provided for measurement of best corrected visual acuity. Treatment was usually completed in one or two sittings and included scatter (panretinal) photocoagulation extending to or beyond the vortex vein ampulae. The argon treatment technique specified 800 to 1,600, 500-micron scatter burns of 0.1 second duration and direct treatment of new vessels whether on or within one disc diameter of the optic disc (NVD) or outside this area (NVE). Focal treatment was also applied to microaneurysms or other lesions thought to be causing macular edema. Followup treatment was applied as needed at 4-month intervals. The xenon technique was similar, but scatter burns were fewer in number, generally of longer duration, and stronger, and direct treatment was applied only to NVE on the surface of the retina.", "Title": "Diabetic Retinopathy Study (DRS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000160", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000160.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000160", "Summary": "To determine whether photocoagulation helps prevent severe visual loss from proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To determine whether a difference exists in the efficacy and safety of argon versus xenon photocoagulation for proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-62", "Keywords": "['Vision Loss']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000160.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "70", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "August 1993", "Description": "Cataract and AMD are two of the most important causes of visual impairment in older Americans. Approximately 3.3 million people have visual impairment due to cataract. Cataract extraction, although one of the safest and most successful of all operations, is now the most frequently performed operation in the United States among persons older than 60, costing an estimated $1.5 billion annually. AMD is the leading cause of new cases of blindness in persons aged 65 and older. Approximately 25 percent of persons aged 65 years and older have signs of AMD. The pathogenesis of AMD, however, is only partly understood, and its etiology remains obscure. For most patients, there is no available treatment. The public health burden imposed by cataract and AMD will only increase in the coming decades as the U.S. population ages. These randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trials will test the hypotheses that supplementation with antioxidant vitamins and with low-dose aspirin reduces the risk of age-related cataract and AMD. The study populations are the Women's Health Study (WHS) and the Women's Antioxidant Cardiovascular Study (WACS). The WHS is a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial using a 2x2 factorial design to test low-dose aspirin (100 mg on alternate days) and vitamin E (600 IU on alternate days) in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. It is being conducted among 39,876 apparently healthy female health professionals age 45 years and older. The WACS is a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled secondary prevention trial using a 2x2x2x2 factorial design to test antioxidant vitamins (vitamins E [600 IU on alternate days] and C [500 mg daily], beta carotene [50 mg on alternate days]), and a combination of folate (800 mg daily), vitamin B6 (25 mg daily), and vitamin B12 (1 mg daily) among women who are at high risk for CVD morbidity and mortality. It is being conducted among 8,171 female health professionals, ages 40 years or older, who either have preexisting CVD or have at least three coronary risk factors and therefore are at high risk for the development of CVD. In addition to the randomized comparisons, the investigators will also examine risk factors for age-related cataract and AMD in these two populations. Factors to be examined include cigarette smoking, alcohol intake, blood pressure, blood cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, height, body mass index, diabetes, and dietary factors. In each study population, followup questionnaires were sent at 6 and 12 months after randomization and every 12 months thereafter requesting information about development of relevant study end points including cataract and AMD and participant compliance with study medications. Reported diagnoses of cataract and AMD are confirmed by medical record review. The primary analysis for the randomized studies will be incidence of AMD or cataract in the treatment and placebo groups. Survival analysis will be used to determine whether there is a difference in time to AMD or cataract diagnosis.", "Title": "Randomized Trials of Vitamin Supplements and Eye Disease", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000161", "Gender": "Female", "FileName": "NCT00000161.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000161", "Summary": "To determine whether vitamin E supplementation reduces the risk of cataract and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in women. To determine whether vitamin C supplementation reduces the risk of cataract and AMD in women. To determine whether beta-carotene supplementation reduces the risk of cataract and AMD in women. To determine whether alternate day, low-dose aspirin reduces the risk of cataract and AMD in women. To identify potential risk factors for cataract and AMD including cigarette smoking, alcohol intake, blood pressure, blood cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, height, body mass index, and diabetes.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-63", "Keywords": "['Age-Related Macular Degeneration']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000161.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "45"},
{"StartDate": "July 1977", "Description": "Retinal branch vein occlusion (BVO) is the second most common retinal vascular disease after diabetic retinopathy. Many treatments for this disorder were attempted before 1977, but none were proven to be effective. The only treatment that seemed at all promising in preventing visual loss from BVO was laser photocoagulation. Approximately 500 patients were enrolled in the study. One-half were randomly assigned to treatment with argon laser photocoagulation; the other one-half remained untreated as controls. For BVO with or without neovascularization, scatter treatment of 100 to 400 laser burns was applied in the drainage area of the occluded vein site, avoiding the fovea and optic disc. Individual laser burns were 200 to 500 microns in diameter with an exposure time of 0.1 to 0.2 seconds. For macular edema, burns of 50 to 100 microns in diameter with exposure time of 0.05 to 0.1 seconds were used. A fluorescein angiogram less than 1 month old had to have been available for each patient. Treatment was performed under topical anesthesia using the argon laser to achieve a grid pattern over the area of capillary leakage identified by fluorescein in the macular region. Photocoagulation was extended no closer to the fovea than the edge of the foveal avascular zone and did not extend peripherally beyond the major vascular arcade. The efficacy of treatment was judged on the basis of visual acuity measurements as well as assessment of the subsequent development of neovascularization and/or vitreous hemorrhage. Patients were followed for at least 3 years.", "Title": "Branch Vein Occlusion Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000162", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000162.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000162", "Summary": "To determine whether scatter argon laser photocoagulation can prevent the development of neovascularization. To determine whether peripheral scatter argon laser photocoagulation can prevent vitreous hemorrhage. To determine whether macular argon laser photocoagulation can improve visual acuity in eyes with macular edema reducing vision to 20/40 or worse.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-64", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000162.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"}]
