[
{"StartDate": "September 1995", "Description": "CMV retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with AIDS and is estimated to affect 35 to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV retinitis is a progressive disorder, the end result of which is total retinal destruction and blindness. As of September 1996, drugs approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CMV retinitis were ganciclovir (Cytovene), foscarnet (Foscavir), and cidofovir (Vistide). All systemically administered anti-CMV drugs are given in a similar fashion consisting of initial 2-week high-dose treatment (induction) to control the infection followed by long-term lower dose treatment (maintenance) to prevent relapse. Ganciclovir is available in both intravenous and oral formulations, foscarnet only in an intravenous formulation, and cidofovir is given by intermittent intravenous administration. A surgically implanted intraocular sustained-release ganciclovir device (Vitrasert) is also approved by the FDA for the treatment of CMV retinitis. Despite the use of continuous maintenance therapy, given enough time, all patients with CMV retinitis on systemically administered drugs relapse. Preliminary studies suggested that the anti-CMV monoclonal antibody, MSL-109, when administered in conjunction with ganciclovir, markedly prolonged the time to relapse. Therefore, a randomized controlled clinical trial evaluating MSL-109 as adjunct therapy was conducted. The MACRT was a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of MSL-109 as adjunct therapy for the treatment of CMV retinitis. Patients with CMV retinitis, both those newly diagnosed and those suffering a relapse with active retinitis, were eligible. Primary therapy (e.g., ganciclovir, foscarnet, etc.) was determined by the treating local physician. The patients enrolled in the trial were randomized to either MSL-109 or placebo, administered as a rapid intravenous infusion every 2 weeks. Outcomes included survival, retinitis progression, change in amount of retinal area involved by CMV, loss of visual function (acuity and field), and morbidity.", "Title": "Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--Monoclonal Antibody CMV Retinitis Trial (MACRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000135", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000135.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000135", "Summary": "To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a human anti-CMV monoclonal antibody, MSL-109, as adjunct therapy for controlling CMV retinitis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-34", "Phase": "Phase 2/Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000135.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Monoclonal Antibody CMV Retinitis Trial (MACRT)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "13"},
{"StartDate": "March 1990", "Description": "CMV retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with AIDS and is estimated to affect 35 to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV retinitis is a progressive disorder, the end result of which is total retinal destruction and blindness. The first two drugs approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CMV retinitis were ganciclovir (Cytovene) and foscarnet (Foscavir). At the time of this trial, both ganciclovir and foscarnet were available only as intravenous formulations. Both drugs were given in a similar two-step fashion: an initial 2-week course of high-dose therapy (induction) to control the infection followed by long-term lower dose therapy to prevent relapse (maintenance). The FGCRT compared foscarnet and ganciclovir as initial therapy for CMV retinitis. The FGCRT was a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing foscarnet and ganciclovir as initial therapy for CMV retinitis. Patients with previously untreated CMV retinitis were randomized to therapy with either intravenous ganciclovir or intravenous foscarnet. The outcome measures of this trial were survival, retinitis progression, loss of visual function (visual acuity and visual field), and morbidity.", "Title": "Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--Foscarnet-Ganciclovir CMV Retinitis Trial (FGCRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000136", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000136.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000136", "Summary": "To evaluate the relative safety and efficacy of ganciclovir and foscarnet as initial treatment of patients with cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-35", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000136.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Foscarnet-Ganciclovir CMV Retinitis Trial", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "13"},
{"StartDate": "May 1986", "Description": "Approximately 20 percent of corneal transplant patients, about 6,000 per year, face donor tissue rejection at rates of up to 60 percent because of corneal vascularization or prior graft rejection. Histocompatibility antigen matching and/or crossmatching may have offered these patients an improved chance for successful outcome. The Collaborative Corneal Transplantation Studies Group conducted two controlled, double-masked studies addressing distinct scientific questions about donor-recipient histocompatibility matching. The Crossmatch Study was a randomized study assessing the effectiveness of crossmatching in preventing graft rejection among high-risk patients with lymphocytotoxic antibodies. The Antigen Matching Study was a prospective, double-masked, observational study of the effectiveness of HLA-A, -B, and -DR donor-recipient matching in high-risk patients who had no lymphocytotoxic antibodies. Six clinical centers recruited high-risk patients and collaborated with their local eye banking and organ procurement agencies in procuring donor corneal tissue. For each of the two studies, a total of 400 patients were sought. Blood samples from each enrolled patient were sent to the local CCTS tissue typing laboratory for HLA typing, and serum samples were sent to the Central Laboratory to be screened for preformed lymphocytotoxic antibodies. Depending on the results of the testing, patients were entered into the Crossmatch Study or the Antigen Matching Study. As corneal donors became available, donor blood samples were HLA typed at the local laboratories and crossmatched against all CCTS patients who awaited transplantation. Results of the testing were entered in a national, 24-hour computerized allocation system operated by the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS). Patients in the Crossmatch Study received a cornea from either a positively crossmatched donor or a negatively crossmatched donor. Patients in the Antigen Matching Study received a cornea with 0 to 6 matched antigens. Transplant patients were followed intensively during the first months after surgery. The number of clinic visits was tapered to 2 during the third and final year of followup, resulting in a total of 17 postoperative visits. Irreversible failure of the corneal allograft due to all causes was the primary outcome variable in both studies. Allograft reaction episodes, irreversible failure due to rejection, and visual acuity were secondary outcome variables.", "Title": "Collaborative Corneal Transplantation Studies (CCTS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000137", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000137", "Summary": "To determine whether histocompatibility matching of corneal transplant donors and recipients can reduce the incidence of graft rejection in high-risk patients.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-36", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000137.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000137.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "10"},
{"StartDate": "May 1989", "Description": "Herpes simplex keratitis is a leading cause of corneal opacification in the United States, other industrialized countries, and developing nations throughout the world. An estimated 450,000 people in the United States can develop recurrent episodes of the disease and about 46,000 episodes of HSV eye infection every year. Herpetic eye disease is the most common infectious cause of corneal blindness in this country. Despite the availability of antiviral agents that are effective in treating herpes simplex epithelial keratitis, inflammation in the corneal connective tissue and iris that can lead to corneal scarring and visual impairment develops in many patients. Prior to the HEDS-I trials, the role of topical corticosteroids in the management of HSV stromal keratitis was uncertain; some animal and human studies suggested there was a benefit to treatment whereas others suggested harm. The value of adding an oral antiviral agent to treatment with topical corticosteroids and topical antivirals also was unknown. The HEDS-I trials were developed to assess the efficacy of topical corticosteroids and oral acyclovir in treating HSV stromal keratitis and iridocyclitis. HEDS-I consisted of three randomized, placebo-controlled trials. The organizational structure consisted of a data coordinating center and eight clinical centers. All patients received the topical antiviral trifluridine as prophylaxis against recurrences of HSV epithelial ulceration. Patients were evaluated weekly for 10 weeks, every other week through week 16, and again at 6 months. The primary outcome was the time to development of preset criteria for treatment failure during the 16-week period of examination. Protocol-specific descriptions of the three trials follow. Herpes Stromal Keratitis, Not on Steroid Trial (HEDS-SKN): Patients with active HSV stromal keratitis who had not used a topical corticosteroid in the preceding 10 days were randomized to treatment with topical prednisolone phosphate drops or topical placebo drops. A treatment schedule, starting with 8 drops a day of 1 percent prednisolone phosphate for 7 days, was progressively decreased over 10 weeks in such a way that patients received 1 drop per day of 1/8 percent prednisolone for the last 3 weeks of treatment. Placebo drops were given by the same schedule. Herpes Stromal Keratitis, on Steroid Treatment (HEDS-SKS): Patients with active HSV stromal keratitis who already were being treated with a topical corticosteroid were randomized either to oral treatment with 200 mg acyclovir capsules (400 mg five times daily) for 10 weeks or to the identical dose of placebo capsules. Patients also received topical prednisolone phosphate in the dosage schedule described above for the SKN trial. Herpes Simplex Virus Iridocyclitis, Receiving Topical Steroids (HEDS-IRT): Patients with active HSV iridocyclitis were randomized either to oral treatment with 200 mg acyclovir capsules (400 mg five times daily) for 10 weeks or to the identical dose of placebo capsules. Patients also received topical prednisolone phosphate in the dosage schedule described above for the SKN trial.", "Title": "Herpetic Eye Disease Study (HEDS) I", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000138", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000138.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000138", "Summary": "To evaluate the efficacy of topical corticosteroids in treating herpes simplex stromal keratitis in conjunction with topical trifluridine. To evaluate the efficacy of oral acyclovir in treating herpes simplex stromal keratitis in patients receiving concomitant topical corticosteroids and trifluridine. To evaluate the efficacy of oral acyclovir in treating herpes simplex iridocyclitis in conjunction with treatment with topical corticosteroids and trifluridine.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-37", "Keywords": "['Herpes Simplex Stromal Keratitis']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000138.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "12"},
{"StartDate": "October 1992", "Description": "Infection of the eye by herpes simplex virus (HSV) is a leading cause of corneal blindness in the United States and other countries. The infection can lead to corneal scarring and neovascularization, permanent endothelial dysfunction and corneal edema, secondary glaucoma, and cataract. Despite the availability of topical antiviral agents that are highly active against HSV keratitis, there is still no known effective method for reducing the frequency of recurrence or severity of stromal keratitis and iridocyclitis. In addition, the prognosis is poor for recovery of good vision following penetrating keratoplasty for actively inflamed or highly vascularized herpetic corneas. On the basis of both animal and human studies, the antiviral agent acyclovir may both treat and prevent recurrence of HSV disease. However, no consensus yet exists on the use of acyclovir in the management and prevention of herpetic eye disease. HEDS-II consists of two randomized, placebo-controlled trials that are assessing the role of oral acyclovir in the management of herpetic eye disease and one epidemiologic study that is investigating risk factors, including stress, for the development of ocular recurrences of the disease. The organizational structure consists of a national coordinating center, eight regional coordinating clinical centers, and approximately 60 clinical sites. The clinical sites where patients are enrolled and followed include both university-based and community-based practices. Herpes Simplex Virus Epithelial Keratitis Trial: HEDS-EKT evaluated the benefit of oral acyclovir given during treatment of an acute HSV keratitis (dendritic or geographic keratitis) in preventing the occurrence of later blinding complications. Patients entered the trial within 7 days of onset. All patients received standard treatment with a topical antiviral and were randomized to receive either oral acyclovir (400 mg five times a day for 21 days) or a placebo. Patients had eight visits within a 12-month followup period. The primary outcome was the time to the first occurrence of stromal keratitis or iridocyclitis in the study eye (eye with epithelial keratitis at time of study entry). The HEDS-EKT recruitment goal was 502 patients. Acyclovir Prevention Trial: HEDS-APT evaluated the benefit of long-term acyclovir treatment in patients with a recent history of HSV eye disease but no current active disease. To be eligible, a patient must have experienced any kind of ocular herpes simplex infection (blepharitis, conjunctivitis, keratitis, or iridocyclitis) in the preceding year. The infection must have been inactive and untreated for at least the previous 30 days. Patients were randomized to receive either oral acyclovir (400 mg twice a day) or placebo for 1 year. Five followup visits occurred during the 1-year treatment period and an additional three followup visits during the 6-month post-treatment period. Episodes of recurrent HSV eye disease during the trial were treated with topical corticosteroids and antivirals as indicated, but patients continued to receive the oral acyclovir or placebo for the entire 365-day period. The primary outcome was the time to the first recurrence of any type of HSV eye disease in either eye. The recruitment goal was 696 patients. Ocular HSV Recurrence Factor Study: HEDS-RFS is evaluating the effect of psychological, environmental, and biological factors on recurrences of herpetic eye disease. Patients recruited into the HEDS-APT trial are eligible to participate in HEDS-RFS if they are 18 years or older. At entry, all subjects fill out a questionnaire to estimate the negative affectivity trait measure. Subjects also fill out a short questionnaire every week for 52 weeks to track acute and chronic stressors (e.g., illnesses, injuries, menstrual periods, sun exposure, emotional and financial stresses). The investigators ensure patient privacy by the patient's mailing of the weekly logs directly to the HEDS National Coordinating Center.", "Title": "Herpetic Eye Disease Study (HEDS) II", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000139", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000139.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000139", "Summary": "To determine whether early treatment (with oral acyclovir) of herpes simplex virus (HSV) ulcerations of the corneal epithelium prevents progression to the blinding complications of stromal keratitis and iridocyclitis. To determine the efficacy of low-dose oral acyclovir in preventing recurrent HSV eye infection in patients with previous episodes of herpetic eye disease. To determine the role of external factors (such as ultraviolet light or corneal trauma) and behavioral factors (such as life stress) on the induction of ocular recurrences of HSV eye infections and disease.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-38", "Keywords": "['Herpes Simplex Stromal Keratitis']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000139.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "September 1985", "Description": "The treatment of retinal detachment complicated by PVR remains controversial. Although some cases are managed successfully by pars plana vitrectomy and with temporary tamponade provided by intraocular gas, others eventually redetach with this technique. Preliminary reports indicate that prolonged tamponade with liquid silicone results in improved anatomical success, but the eventual visual outcome may be prejudiced by silicone-related complications, particularly glaucoma and keratopathy. The addition of hydraulic reattachment by simultaneous fluid/gas exchange to vitrectomy surgery has proved to be an important development. Although complications are few with these procedures, subsequent redetachment is frequent. The Silicone Study was a randomized trial to investigate the relative merits of silicone oil or gas as tamponade modalities. All study patients underwent vitrectomy and were randomized intraoperatively either to silicone oil or to gas. Two groups of eyes were entered into the study: eyes that had not had a prior vitrectomy (Group 1) and those that had undergone previous vitrectomy outside the study (Group 2). A critical element in the study was a standardized surgical procedure for PVR. This surgical procedure, intended to relieve retinal traction with vitrectomy techniques, was followed by assessment of the relief provided by an intraocular air tamponade. The eye was randomized to silicone oil or gas only after completion of the entire surgical procedure to eliminate investigator bias that might develop through knowledge of the treatment modality. Patients were examined 5 to 14 days following the randomization and again at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months after that date. Repeated surgery was permitted for either treatment modality. The Fundus Photograph Reading Center staff processed and analyzed photographs taken at all the clinics, graded the preoperative severity of PVR on the basis of baseline visit photographs, and confirmed the macular status at followup visits. End points of the study were visual acuity of 5/200 or greater and macular reattachment for 6 months following the final surgical procedure. The successful outcomes and complication rates of the two modalities were compared.", "Title": "The Silicone Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000140", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000140.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000140", "Summary": "To compare, through a randomized, multicenter surgical trial, the postoperative tamponade effectiveness of intraocular silicone oil with that of an intraocular long-acting gas (initially sulfur hexafluoride [SF 6 ], later perfluoropropane [C 3 F 8 ]) for the management of retinal detachment complicated by proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR), using vitrectomy and associated techniques. To evaluate the ocular complications that result from the use of silicone oil and gas.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-39", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000140.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "April 1994", "Description": "CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with AIDS and is estimated to affect 35 percent to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis is a progressive disorder, the end result of which is total retinal destruction and blindness. As of September 1997, drugs approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CMV (cytomegalovirus)retinitis were ganciclovir (Cytovene), foscarnet (Foscavir), and cidofovir (Vistide). Cidofovir has a prolonged duration of effect permitting intermittent administration. All systemically administered anti-CMV drugs are given in a similar fashion consisting of initial 2-week high-dose treatment (induction) to control the infection followed by long-term lower dose treatment (maintenance) to prevent relapse. Cidofovir is administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly for induction therapy and once every 2 weeks as maintenance therapy. The HPCRT evaluated the efficacy and safety of cidofovir therapy. The HPCRT was a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial of cidofovir for the treatment of CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis. Patients with small peripheral CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis lesions (i.e., not at risk of immediate loss of visual acuity) were randomized to immediate treatment with cidofovir or deferred therapy until the retinitis had progressed. Patients randomized to immediate therapy received either 1) low-dose cidofovir at 5 mg/kg once weekly induction for 2 weeks, followed by 3 mg/kg once every 2 weeks for maintenance or 2) high-dose cidofovir at 5 mg/kg once weekly induction for 2 weeks followed by 5 mg/kg once every 2 weeks for maintenance. Patients whose retinitis progressed were given treatment according to best medical judgement, and those assigned to deferral were generally treated with cidofovir. Outcomes in this trial included retinitis progression, loss of retinal area, and morbidity.", "Title": "Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--HPMPC Peripheral CMV Retinitis Trial (HPCRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000142", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000142.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000142", "Summary": "To test and evaluate the efficacy and safety of intravenous cidofovir (Vistide, previously known as HPMPC) for the treatment of retinitis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-41", "Phase": "Phase 2/Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000142.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--HPMPC Peripheral CMV Retinitis Trial (HPCRT)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "13"},
{"StartDate": "May 1997", "Description": "Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is among the most frequently encountered opportunistic infections in patients with AIDS. In the era of prophylaxis for pneumocystic pneumonia, CMV disease is estimated to affect 45 percent of patients with AIDS sometime between the diagnosis of AIDS and death. Retinitis has been estimated to account for up to 85 percent of CMV disease in these patients, making CMV retinitis the most common ocular infection encountered. CMV retinitis is a relatively late-stage manifestation, associated with cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) + T-cell counts < 100 cells/\u00b5L and often < 50 cells/\u00b5L. All currently available treatments for CMV suppress viral replication but do not eliminate the virus from the body. Discontinuation of therapy is associated with a prompt relapse of the retinitis. Despite the use of chronic suppressive therapy, relapse of the retinitis generally occurs, at least with systemically administered anti-CMV drugs. The first two treatments approved for CMV retinitis were intravenous ganciclovir and intravenous foscarnet. Both are given by daily intravenous infusions and therefore require central venous catheters. The development of newer treatments has focused not only on efficacious treatments, but also on treatments that do not require central venous catheters. Available treatments now include oral ganciclovir, the ganciclovir intraocular device, and intravenous cidofovir. In vitro data suggest that combination therapies are synergistic in inhibiting viral replication; these therapies include a foscarnet-ganciclovir combination and a cidofovir-ganciclovir combination. In the SOCA--CMV Retinitis Retreatment Trial, the combination of intravenous ganciclovir and foscarnet was more effective than either drug alone for the treatment of relapsed retinitis. Therefore, the combination of intermittent intravenous cidofovir and daily oral ganciclovir may be an attractive therapy for relapsed disease because it may provide synergy for controlling both ocular and visceral disease while not necessitating either a central venous catheter or an intraocular surgical procedure. The Ganciclovir-Cidofovir CMV Retinitis Trial (GCCRT) is a randomized, multicenter clinical trial. Patients will be assigned to receive one of two regimens: (1) ganciclovir intraocular device plus oral ganciclovir or (2) intravenous cidofovir. The intraocular device will be surgically implanted at baseline and again every 6 to 8 months in eyes with CMV retinitis. Oral ganciclovir is taken at a dose of 1 gram three times daily. Cidofovir will be administered intravenously at 5 mg/kg once weekly for 2 consecutive weeks and once every 2 weeks thereafter. If disease progression occurs in patients receiving cidofovir, patients will be given reinduction therapy, and oral ganciclovir at a dose of 1 gram three times per day will be added to the treatment. If patients assigned to cidofovir are unable to tolerate that regimen, an alternative systemic regimen will be recommended. Study outcome variables include a decrease of three or more lines from baseline in best corrected visual acuity and rate of visual field loss. The study will also assess other variables including mortality, blood CMV and HIV load, quality of life, and medical costs. Treatment assignment will not be masked to either patients or clinicians; however, reading of fundus photographs to determine both change in retinal involvement and progression will be masked.", "Title": "Studies of Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--Ganciclovir-Cidofovir CMV Retinitis Trial (GCCRT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000143", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000143.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000143", "Summary": "To compare the newest CMV retinitis drug, cidofovir, with a regimen of the ganciclovir intraocular device plus oral ganciclovir with respect to efficacy in preventing vision loss. To compare a treatment regimen that incorporates highly active local therapy (ganciclovir device) with a treatment regimen that does not.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-42", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000143.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Studies of Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA)--Ganciclovir-Cidofovir CMV Retinitis Trial (GCCRT)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "13"},
{"StartDate": "January 1984", "Description": "During the last decade, argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) has often been used instead of surgery as the treatment of choice in cases of open-angle glaucoma that could not be controlled by drugs. ALT treatment consists of tiny laser burns evenly spaced around the trabecular meshwork. It sometimes has been found to be effective in controlling glaucoma, although many eyes still require some medical treatment. The Glaucoma Laser Trial (GLT), a randomized, controlled clinical trial, was conducted to determine whether ALT is effective in patients with newly diagnosed, primary, open-angle glaucoma. Each of the 271 patients in the trial received argon laser treatment in one eye and standard topical medication in the other eye. The eye to be started on medicine and the eye that would get the laser treatment were randomly selected. The Glaucoma Laser Trial Followup Study was a followup study of 203 of the 271 patients who enrolled in the Glaucoma Laser Trial. By the close of the Glaucoma Laser Trial Followup Study, median duration of followup since diagnosis of primary, open-angle glaucoma was 7 years (maximum, 9 years). The argon laser treatment was done in two sessions 1 month apart, with one-half of the trabecular meshwork treated with 45 to 55 laser burns in each session. Patients were seen for a followup visit 3 months after the first laser treatment and every 3 months thereafter for a period of at least 2 years. At each visit, examination of the eyes included a check of intraocular pressure and visual acuity. Visual field examinations were performed 3, 6, and 12 months after randomization and annually thereafter. Disc stereo photographs were taken 6 and 12 months after randomization and annually thereafter. The results of these examinations determined whether treatment should be changed. If the pressure in either eye had not been reduced to the desired level, the physician changed the medication in the eye treated with drops or started the use of drops in the laser-treated eye according to a standardized procedure being used in the trial. If intraocular pressure was still not successfully reduced, surgery or further laser treatment may have been required.", "Title": "Glaucoma Laser Trial (GLT) Glaucoma Laser Trial Followup Study (GLTFS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000144", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000144.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000144", "Summary": "To compare the safety and long-term efficacy of argon laser treatment of the trabecular meshwork with standard medical treatment for primary open-angle glaucoma.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-43", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000144.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "35"},
{"StartDate": "September 1990", "Description": "AMD and cataract are the leading causes of visual impairment and blindness in the United States. Based on many clinical studies, it is apparent that the frequency of both diseases increases dramatically after age 60. Although excellent treatments for cataract are available, there are no equivalent treatments for AMD. As the average lifespan of our population increases, the number of people who develop AMD will increase dramatically in the years ahead. Unless successful means of prevention or treatment are developed, blindness from AMD -- and its importance as a public health problem -- will increase. Neither the etiology nor the natural history of AMD or cataract is known. Epidemiologic studies suggest that a number of risk factors may be associated with AMD and cataract, but the strength of the evidence in support of these hypotheses varies. Possibly associated with AMD are personal characteristics, such as age, race, height, family history, and strength of hand grip; ocular characteristics, such as hyperopia and color of iris; and cardiovascular diseases, smoking, lung infections, and chemical exposures. Clinical and laboratory studies suggest the following factors may be associated with progression of AMD: drusen type, choroidal vascular diseases, and photic injury. Epidemiologic studies of cataract suggest that associated risk factors may include personal characteristics, such as age, sex, race, occupation, and educational status; ocular characteristics, such as iris color; and diabetes mellitus, hypertension, drug exposure, smoking, and sunlight exposure. Animal studies and observational epidemiologic studies suggest that deficiencies in vitamins C and E, carotenoids, and the trace elements zinc and selenium also may be associated with the development of the two diseases, especially cataract. Although surgical treatment to remove cataract is very effective, cataract surgery carries risks, as does any other surgery. Therefore, many research efforts focus on preventing or slowing cataract development, as well as on determining the causes of cataract formation. The Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS) is a major research program to improve our understanding of the predisposing factors, clinical course, and prognostic factors of AMD and cataract. Eligible patients are randomized to treatment with placebo, antioxidants, zinc, or antioxidants plus zinc, and are followed for a minimum of 5 years.", "Title": "Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000145", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000145.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000145", "Summary": "To assess the clinical course, prognosis, and risk factors of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataract. To evaluate, in randomized clinical trials, the effects of pharmacologic doses of (1) antioxidants and zinc on the progression of AMD and (2) antioxidants on the development and progression of lens opacities.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-44", "Keywords": "['Age-Related Macular Degeneration']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000145.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "80", "MinimumAge": "55"}]
