[
{"StartDate": "July 1988", "Description": "Optic neuritis is an inflammatory disease of the optic nerve that typically affects young adults. Women are affected more often than men. It is second only to glaucoma as the most common acquired optic nerve disorder in persons younger than age 50. In this disorder, closely linked to multiple sclerosis, prognosis for visual recovery is generally good. However, return of visual function is almost never complete. After resolution of optic neuritis, virtually all patients show some signs of optic nerve damage, and most are symptomatic. Even when a patient's acuity recovers to 20/20, abnormalities frequently remain in other measures such as contrast sensitivity, color vision, and visual field. Prior to the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial (ONTT), well-established guidelines for treating optic neuritis did not exist. Although corticosteroids had been used to treat this disease, studies to demonstrate their effectiveness had not been satisfactory. Some experts advocated treatment with oral prednisone while others recommended no treatment. Anecdotal reports suggested that high-dose intravenous corticosteroids might be effective. The association between optic neuritis and multiple sclerosis is well established. Optic neuritis may be the first manifestation of multiple sclerosis, or it may occur later in its course. A strong case can be made for \"isolated\" optic neuritis being a forme fruste of multiple sclerosis, based on similarities between the two in such epidemiologic factors as gender, age, geographic distributions, cerebrospinal fluid changes, histocompatibility data, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes, and family history. The magnitude of the risk of multiple sclerosis after optic neuritis is uncertain. Previous studies have reported very disparate results, with the risk being reported to be as low as 13 percent and as high as 88 percent. The importance of risk factors such as age, gender, and MRI changes in predicting which patients with optic neuritis are most likely to develop multiple sclerosis also is unclear. The treatment phase of the study was called the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial (ONTT), whereas the current long-term followup phase is called the Longitudinal Optic Neuritis Study (LONS). The study is being conducted at 15 clinical centers in the United States. Resource centers include a data coordinating center and a visual field reading center. Patients were randomized to one of the three following treatment groups at 15 clinical centers: - Oral prednisone (1 mg/kg/day) for 14 days - Intravenous methylprednisolone (250 mg every 6 hours) for 3 days, followed by oral prednisone (1 mg/kg/day) for 11 days - Oral placebo for 14 days Each regimen was followed by a short oral taper. The oral prednisone and placebo groups were double masked, whereas the intravenous methylprednisolone group was single masked. Baseline testing included blood tests to evaluate for syphilis and systemic lupus erythematosus, a chest x-ray to evaluate for sarcoidosis, and a brain MRI scan to evaluate for changes suggestive of multiple sclerosis. The rate of visual recovery and the long-term visual outcome were both assessed by measures of visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, color vision, and visual field at baseline, at seven followup visits during the first 6 months, and then yearly. A standardized neurologic examination with an assessment of multiple sclerosis status was made at baseline, after 6 months, and then yearly.", "Title": "Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial (ONTT)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000146", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000146.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000146", "Summary": "To assess the beneficial and adverse effects of corticosteroid treatment for optic neuritis. To determine the natural history of vision in patients who suffer optic neuritis. To identify risk factors for the development of multiple sclerosis in patients with optic neuritis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-47", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000146.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "46", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "July 1988", "Description": "Optic neuritis is an inflammatory disease of the optic nerve that typically affects young adults. Women are affected more often than men. It is second only to glaucoma as the most common acquired optic nerve disorder in persons younger than age 50. In this disorder, closely linked to multiple sclerosis, prognosis for visual recovery is generally good. However, return of visual function is almost never complete. After resolution of optic neuritis, virtually all patients show some signs of optic nerve damage, and most are symptomatic. Even when a patient's acuity recovers to 20/20, abnormalities frequently remain in other measures such as contrast sensitivity, color vision, and visual field. Prior to the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial (ONTT), well-established guidelines for treating optic neuritis did not exist. Although corticosteroids had been used to treat this disease, studies to demonstrate their effectiveness had not been satisfactory. Some experts advocated treatment with oral prednisone while others recommended no treatment. Anecdotal reports suggested that high-dose intravenous corticosteroids might be effective. The association between optic neuritis and multiple sclerosis is well established. Optic neuritis may be the first manifestation of multiple sclerosis, or it may occur later in its course. A strong case can be made for \"isolated\" optic neuritis being a forme fruste of multiple sclerosis, based on similarities between the two in such epidemiologic factors as gender, age, geographic distributions, cerebrospinal fluid changes, histocompatibility data, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes, and family history. The magnitude of the risk of multiple sclerosis after optic neuritis is uncertain. Previous studies have reported very disparate results, with the risk being reported to be as low as 13 percent and as high as 88 percent. The importance of risk factors such as age, gender, and MRI changes in predicting which patients with optic neuritis are most likely to develop multiple sclerosis also is unclear. The treatment phase of the study was called the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial (ONTT), whereas the current long-term followup phase is called the Longitudinal Optic Neuritis Study (LONS). The study is being conducted at 15 clinical centers in the United States. Resource centers include a data coordinating center and a visual field reading center. Patients were randomized to one of the three following treatment groups at 15 clinical centers: - Oral prednisone (1 mg/kg/day) for 14 days - Intravenous methylprednisolone (250 mg every 6 hours) for 3 days, followed by oral prednisone (1 mg/kg/day) for 11 days - Oral placebo for 14 days. Each regimen was followed by a short oral taper. The oral prednisone and placebo groups were double masked, whereas the intravenous methylprednisolone group was single masked. Baseline testing included blood tests to evaluate for syphilis and systemic lupus erythematosus, a chest x-ray to evaluate for sarcoidosis, and a brain MRI scan to evaluate for changes suggestive of multiple sclerosis. The rate of visual recovery and the long-term visual outcome were both assessed by measures of visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, color vision, and visual field at baseline, at seven followup visits during the first 6 months, and then yearly. A standardized neurologic examination with an assessment of multiple sclerosis status was made at baseline, after 6 months, and then yearly.", "Title": "Longitudinal Optic Neuritis Study (LONS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000147", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000147.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000147", "Summary": "To assess the beneficial and adverse effects of corticosteroid treatment for optic neuritis. To determine the natural history of vision in patients who suffer optic neuritis. To identify risk factors for the development of multiple sclerosis in patients with optic neuritis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-48", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000147.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "46", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "April 1988", "Description": "In advanced glaucoma, medication alone no longer reduces intraocular pressure adequately, and the eye has field defects. Before 1980, some type of filtering surgery, such as trabeculectomy, was the usual method of intervention. Since then, laser trabeculoplasty has become a popular alternative. Sometimes the first intervention chosen succeeds in controlling pressure for many years; at other times, the success lasts only a few weeks or months. Because success is limited, some patients, over time, need to undergo a sequence of surgical interventions. Little is known about which sequence gives the best long-range outcome. The Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) is designed to provide a comprehensive assessment of the long-range outcomes of medical and surgical management in advanced glaucoma. The study uses visual function status to compare two intervention sequences in managing the disease. Eligible eyes are randomly assigned to one of two intervention sequences: (1) trabeculectomy, followed by argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) should trabeculectomy fail, followed by a second trabeculectomy should ALT fail; or (2) ALT, followed by trabeculectomy should ALT fail, followed by another trabeculectomy should the first trabeculectomy fail. Antifibrotic agents may be used as an adjunct to trabeculectomy, but only in eyes with a previous history of invasive surgery. Eyes that fail the entire assigned sequence of interventions are managed at the discretion of the AGIS physician in collaboration with the patient. Interventions are supplemented with medical treatment as needed. A total of 789 eyes with advanced glaucoma have been enrolled. All patients are being followed under a standardized protocol for a minimum of 5 years to determine degree of visual function loss, failure rates of interventions, rates of complications, and need for supplemental therapy. After the initial intervention, followup examinations are scheduled at 1 week, 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and every 6 months thereafter. After second and third interventions, followup examinations are scheduled at 1 and 4 weeks. Additional visits are scheduled as necessary for the management of the disease. The primary outcome variable in AGIS is average percent of eyes with decrease of vision, where decrease of vision is a substantial decline of either visual field or visual acuity attributable to the effect of glaucoma. Secondary outcome variables include sustained decrease of vision, failure of interventions, number of prescribed glaucoma medications, and level of intraocular pressure. An ancillary study is assessing filtering bleb encapsulation.", "Title": "Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000148", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000148.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000148", "Summary": "To assess the long-range outcomes of sequences of interventions involving trabeculectomy and argon laser trabeculoplasty in eyes that have failed initial medical treatment for glaucoma.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-49", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000148.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "80", "MinimumAge": "35"},
{"StartDate": "October 1993", "Description": "Recent studies have challenged the conventional wisdom of treating all newly diagnosed open-angle glaucoma (OAG) with eyedrops; rather, these studies suggest that more effective control of glaucomatous damage can be obtained by immediate filtration surgery. In addition, increased attention to the impact of therapy on health-related quality of life has added another consideration in deciding upon appropriate treatment of such patients. The Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS), a randomized, controlled clinical trial, is being conducted to determine whether patients with newly diagnosed OAG are best managed by the conventional approach of topical pharmacologic agents or by immediate filtration surgery. Eligible patients were randomized to receive either a stepped medication treatment regimen or filtration surgery to control their OAG. Sample size requirements indicated that 300 patients were needed for each treatment approach; a total of 607 patients were ultimately recruited for the CIGTS. Patients randomized to the medication treatment arm are receiving a stepped regimen of topical medications, beginning with a single agent (typically a beta blocker), with additional medications added upon documented lack of intraocular pressure control or evidence of progressive visual field loss. If medications fail to control the patient's OAG, a series of treatment steps begin with argon laser trabeculoplasty and conclude with trabeculectomy. In the surgical treatment arm, patients underwent immediate trabeculectomy and, with documented failure, proceed to argon laser trabeculectomy, then conclude with medications. Patients, rather than eyes, are randomized to the two treatment arms; if both eyes are eligible for treatment, the treatment course for both eyes is the same and was determined in the randomization. Following randomization, participating community ophthalmologists affiliated with the study have been allowed to manage the medical and surgical care of study patients. However, all patients are seen at the Clinical Centers for standardized followup examinations at 3 and 6 months after treatment and every 6 months thereafter; in addition, patients randomized to the surgical arm will receive, at a minimum, postsurgical followup at 1 day, 1 week, and 1 month. At the Clinical Center visits, examination of the eye(s) includes evaluation of visual acuity, visual field, and intraocular pressure. The results of these tests determine whether treatment should be changed. In addition, before and at regular intervals after treatment, patients are being interviewed by telephone to assess their health-related quality of life. A questionnaire that includes the Sickness Impact Profile, Visual Activities Questionnaire, and other components is being used.", "Title": "Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000149", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000149.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000149", "Summary": "To compare the long-term effect of treating newly diagnosed open-angle glaucoma with standard medical treatment versus filtration surgery.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-50", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000149.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "75", "MinimumAge": "25"},
{"StartDate": "January 1999", "Description": "Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) with CNV is the most common cause of irreversible severe loss of vision in older adults. The Macular Photocoagulation Study (MPS) Group, sponsored by the National Eye Institute, demonstrated that laser treatment is effective for recurrent subfoveal CNV (that extends into the center of the macula) after laser treatment and for selected patients with subfoveal CNV who had no prior treatment. More recently, photodynamic therapy with verteporfin was shown to reduce the risk of moderate and server loss of vision in selected patients with subfoveal neovascularization associated with AMD. Choroidal neovascularization due to OHS affects adults of working age and may pose a lifelong risk of blindness to people who have characteristic scars (\"histo spots\") in the macula. It has been estimated that 2,000,000 people who live or have lived in the region of the United States in which histoplasmosis is endemic have characteristic histo spots and that 100,000 of them will lose vision in one or both eyes due to CNV. Fortunately, the effectiveness of laser photocoagulation for treating CNV due to OHS that is not subfoveal (i.e., not extending into the center of the macula) also has been demonstrated by the MPS Group in two randomized clinical trials. However, treated patients are at risk of subfoveal recurrence, and laser treatment cannot be applied to these patients or to other patients with OHS who present with subfoveal CNV in the absence of prior laser treatment. Recently, alternative therapies to laser photocoagulation and photodynamic therapy have been proposed for the management of CNV and are intended to increase the chance of stabilizing or improving vision at a greater rate than with observation. The most promising of these alternatives at this time is surgical removal of the neovascular lesion, i.e., submacular surgery. The rationale for this surgical approach is that removal of the CNV may halt enlargement of the visual defect, spare photoreceptors in the central macula, and allow adjacent ocular structures to function normally. Data regarding the effectiveness of this approach is limited to reports of case series which suffer from the absence of untreated controls, limited number of cases evaluated, or lack of long term follow-up to assess the impact of recurrent CNV, delayed atrophy of the outer retina, and adverse outcomes such as cataract and retinal detachment, requiring additional treatment. The Submacular Surgery Trials comprise a set of multicenter, randomized clinical trials with the goal of determining whether surgical removal of subfoveal CNV stabilizes or improves vision more often than observation. A total of 19 clinical centers collaborated in conducting a clinical trial for patients with neovascular OHS and idiopathic CNV (Group H protocol). The target sample size for the Group H protocol was 250 participants to be enrolled and followed for 4 years. A total of 29 clinical centers collaborated in conducting two additional clinical trials for patients with neovascular AMD. The target sample size for these AMD trials was 960 participants to be enrolled and followed for 4 years. Vision data collected at baseline include a protocol refraction, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity (ETDRS charts), contrast threshold (Pelli-Robson charts), and reading speed (enlarged text). Other baseline data recorded include stereoscopic color fundus photographs, fluorescein angiograms, and lens photographs, as well as health- and vision-related quality of life interview data (by telephone). Eligible patients who gave signed, informed consent were randomly assigned to surgery (within 8 days of randomization) or observation. Patients, assigned to surgery, are seen one month post-surgery for an examination and photographs. All participants are examined at 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months after randomization to collect vision data (collected in a masked fashion at 24 and 48 months after randomization) and to repeat photography. Quality of life telephone interviews are repeated at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months after randomization. The primary outcome is improvement in visual acuity from baseline to the two-year examination or retention of baseline visual acuity through the two-year examination. Secondary outcomes include change in quality of life from baseline to the 2- and 4-year examinations, change in visual acuity over 4 years, large losses of visual acuity, and adverse ocular outcomes (e.g., those requiring additional treatment such as cataract, retinal detachment, or recurrent CNV).", "Title": "Submacular Surgery Trials (SST)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000150", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000150.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000150", "Summary": "To determine whether surgical removal of subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and associated hemorrhage in patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the ocular histoplasmosis syndrome (OHS), or idiopathic CNV stabilizes or improves vision more often than observation. To determine how surgical removal compared to observation of subfoveal CNV due to AMD, OHS, or idiopathic causes changes the patient's perception of health- and vision-related \"quality of life,\" as measured by telephone interview using the Medical Outcomes Survey Short Form-36 (MOS SF-36) instrument, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25). To determine whether randomized trials of surgery are warranted for patients with subfoveal CNV associated with age-related macular degeneration not suitable for laser treatment.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-52", "Keywords": "['Ocular Histoplasmosis Syndrome','Idiopathic Choroidal Neovascularization']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000150.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Submacular Surgery Trials (SST)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "December 1979", "Description": "ETDRS was a multicenter, randomized clinical trial designed to evaluate argon laser photocoagulation and aspirin treatment in the management of patients with nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy. A total of 3,711 patients were recruited to be followed for a minimum of 4 years to provide long-term information on the risks and benefits of the treatments under study. The eligibility criteria for the ETDRS were designed to include a broad range of macular edema severity, from a few small hard exudates within a disc diameter of the fovea with normal visual acuity to extensive cystoid spaces with a visual acuity of 20/200. All study patients had one eye randomly assigned to immediate photocoagulation and the other eye to deferral of photocoagulation until high-risk proliferative retinopathy developed. During followup, additional photocoagulation was allowed for any degree of macular edema within the eligibility range, but additional photocoagulation was required only for edema involving or threatening the center of the macula. The term \"clinically significant macular edema\" was coined to designate this level of severity. The trial use of aspirin therapy was based on clinical observation and on aspirin's possible mechanisms of action. Previous observations of diabetic patients who were taking large doses of aspirin for rheumatoid arthritis showed that the prevalence of retinopathy in this group was lower than the prevalence that would be expected in the diabetic population at large. Evidence suggested that diabetic patients have altered platelet aggregation and disaggregation, which may contribute to the capillary closure seen in retinopathy. This abnormality is reversed by aspirin in vitro . However, because of aspirin's other possible mechanisms of action and its well-known side effects, such as allergic, idiosyncratic, and intolerance reactions, the use of this therapy in the ETDRS was carefully controlled and monitored.", "Title": "Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000151", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000151.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000151", "Summary": "To evaluate the effectiveness of both argon laser photocoagulation and aspirin therapy in delaying or preventing progression of early diabetic retinopathy to more severe stages of visual loss and blindness. To help determine the best time to initiate photocoagulation treatment in diabetic retinopathy. To monitor closely the effects of diabetes mellitus and of photocoagulation on visual function. To produce natural history data that can be used to identify risk factors and test etiologic hypotheses in diabetic retinopathy.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-53", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000151.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "70", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "April 1982", "Description": "Macular degeneration, a major cause of blindness in the United States, is the leading cause of new cases of blindness in people aged 65 and older. The National Eye Institute estimates that each year an additional 165,000 people, mainly in the older age groups, develop macular disease. Among all people with macular degeneration, approximately 116,000 are affected by the neovascular form of the disease. Although laser treatment is an effective treatment for patients with certain forms of neovascular membranes (exudative AMD), for most patients there is no available treatment. The pathogenesis of AMD is only partly understood, and its etiology remains obscure. The Retinal and Choroidal Diseases Panel of the National Advisory Eye Council has stated that \"none of the fundamental causes of any type of macular disease is known, and none can be prevented.\" Thus, this panel recommended that one of the NEI's program development priorities should be to \"initiate epidemiologic studies of macular diseases to identify possible causative, protective, or aggravating factors.\" This trial is part of the Physicians Health Study, sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) of the National Institutes of Health, with funding for eye epidemiologic data evaluations provided by the NEI. It is an ongoing, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of aspirin in the prevention of cardiovascular mortality and of beta-carotene in the prevention of cancer. Following randomization, each of the 22,071 physicians enrolled was assigned to one of four groups to take either aspirin or its placebo and beta-carotene or its placebo. Followup questionnaires are sent 6 and 12 months after randomization and every 12 months thereafter. The average length of followup is now greater than 12 years. The hypothesis that beta-carotene levels are inversely related to AMD is supported by experimental studies on the relationship between antioxidants and retinal morphology and function. There is increasing evidence that visible and ultraviolet light can damage the retina through production of superoxide radicals. Antioxidants (including beta-carotene, vitamins A, E, and C, and selenium) protect against oxidative damage by acting as scavengers for the superoxide radicals. Epidemiologic data from the first National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-1) are also consistent with a link between antioxidants and AMD; the frequency of consumption of fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin A (beta-carotene) was negatively correlated with AMD after adjustment for demographic and medical factors. Data from this study will determine whether one 50-mg beta-carotene capsule taken on alternate days protects against the development of AMD and whether additional risk factors emerge after simultaneous controlling for other potential confounding factors. Reported diagnoses of AMD are confirmed by medical record review. The primary analysis will be a comparison of incidence of reported AMD in the beta-carotene and placebo groups. The Cox proportional hazards model will also be used to determine whether there is a difference in time to diagnosis of AMD between the two groups.", "Title": "Randomized Trial of Beta-Carotene and Macular Degeneration", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000152", "Gender": "Male", "FileName": "NCT00000152.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000152", "Summary": "To determine whether 50 mg of beta-carotene taken every other day reduces the risk of developing age-related macular degeneration (AMD) among male U.S. physicians who were aged 40 to 84 in 1982. To investigate the possible relationship of AMD with other antioxidants, including selenium and vitamins A, C, and E. To identify potential risk factors for development of AMD. Possible risk factors include height, systemic hypertension, cardiovascular disease, blood cholesterol, cigarette smoking, iris and skin color, sunlight exposure, body mass index, diabetes, and alcohol intake.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-54", "Keywords": "['Age-Related Macular Degeneration']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000152.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "84", "MinimumAge": "40"},
{"StartDate": "December 1984", "Description": "The KARNS was a randomized clinical trial designed to compare the effectiveness of argon and krypton laser photocoagulation in causing the regression of preexisting neovascularization on the disc (NVD) in diabetic retinopathy. The main theoretical advantage for the krypton laser in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy is that the red laser beam penetrates blood and may be more effective in making burns in the pigment epithelium in eyes with vitreous hemorrhage. The burns produced by the krypton laser in the retina are different from those produced by the argon laser. Specifically, the burns from the krypton laser do not involve the inner retina. Also, the krypton laser spares the nerve fiber layer near the macula. In contrast, nerve fiber layer burns are common with the argon laser. Pigment epithelium and outer segments are usually destroyed by both krypton and argon photocoagulation, but there is no uptake of energy by the vascular tissues within the retina when krypton photocoagulation is used. Further, krypton treatment is more effective in penetrating nuclear sclerosis of the lens and can be used to treat some diabetic eyes with this condition that cannot be treated with the argon laser. In the KARNS, patients with diabetic retinopathy and NVD of one-third disc area or greater in extent were assigned at random to either argon or krypton laser scatter photocoagulation (panretinal photocoagulation). The null hypothesis was that each treatment would result in a similar proportion of eyes having regression of the NVD by 3 months. The KARNS pilot study affirmed the benefits of argon laser photocoagulation in the treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy, as demonstrated in the NEI-supported Diabetic Retinopathy Study conducted a decade ago. (See publication list.) The KARNS study sought to determine whether use of the krypton laser could be as effective as the argon laser in causing regression of diabetic neovascularization, but with fewer side effects (such as smaller loss of central visual acuity). Thirty-two nationwide clinical centers participated initially in this multicenter clinical trial. Following the initial study examination, the baseline examination and fundus photographs were obtained within 1 week before application of photocoagulation. Study followup visits occurred at 3 months and 1 year after entry in the study. Additional visits were scheduled as clinically necessary. The specific techniques for photocoagulation were similar for both argon and krypton scatter photocoagulation. Scatter (panretinal) photocoagulation consisted of 1,600 to 2,000 burns placed 0.5 to 1 burn width apart. Burns of moderate intensity (whiteness) and 500 ??m in size at the retina were required. The burns were applied to the retinal periphery no closer than 2 disc diameters from the center of the fovea and 500 ??m from the margin of the optic disc. In December 1985, the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study groups reported that focal photocoagulation was effective in reducing the rates of moderate visual loss in patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema. The KARNS protocol was then changed to allow focal treatment for clinically significant macular edema in all study participants and to allow an eye that had previous focal photocoagulation for macular edema to become eligible for study. The study primary end point was regression of NVD, as assessed on the 3-month visit stereo fundus photographs of the disc, to less than one-third disc area in extent. Secondary end points included change in extent of NVD, change in visual acuity after photocoagulation, development of fibrous tissue proliferation, and change or development of macular traction lines.", "Title": "Krypton-Argon Regression of Neovascularization Study (KARNS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000153", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000153.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000153", "Summary": "To evaluate whether red krypton laser treatment is as effective at causing regression of diabetic disc neovascularization as treatment with the blue-green argon laser, when both lasers are used with identical panretinal photocoagulation patterns. To assess the vision of study patients. To test the feasibility of a prototype NEI-sponsored multicenter clinical trial in which participating clinics are not financially reimbursed and in which both the Coordinating and Fundus Photograph Reading Center functions are carried out by staff of the NEI Biometry and Epidemiology Program.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-55", "Keywords": "['Diabetic Disc Neovascularization','Optic Disk']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000153.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "79", "MinimumAge": "18"}]
