[
{"MaximumAge": "35", "Description": "This protocol is designed to assess both acute and chronic effects of the calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine, on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia. The multicenter trial is composed of two phases and will involve a double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel design. The goal of Phase I is to examine the ability of nifedipine vs. placebo to decrease adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, as well as to begin to assess the dose-dependency of nifedipine effects. The goal of Phase II is to evaluate the long-term effects of nifedipine; that is, can attenuation of ACTH release by nifedipine permit a decrease in the dosage of glucocorticoid needed to suppress the HPA axis? Such a decrease would, in turn, reduce the deleterious effects of glucocorticoid treatment in CAH.", "Title": "Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Calcium Channels as Therapeutic Targets", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000102", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000102.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000102", "Summary": "This study will test the ability of extended release nifedipine (Procardia XL), a blood pressure medication, to permit a decrease in the dose of glucocorticoid medication children take to treat congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH).", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR01070-0506", "Phase": "Phase 1/Phase 2", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000102.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "14"},
{"MaximumAge": "0", "Title": "Does Lead Burden Alter Neuropsychological Development?", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000104", "Gender": "Female", "FileName": "NCT00000104.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000104", "Summary": "Inner city children are at an increased risk for lead overburden. This in turn affects cognitive functioning. However, the underlying neuropsychological effects of lead overburden and its age-specific effects have not been well delineated. This study is part of a larger study on the effects of lead overburden on the development of attention and memory. The larger study is using a multi-model approach to study the effects of lead overburden on these effects including the event-related potential (ERP), electrophysiologic measures of attention and memory are studied. Every eight months, for a total of three sessions the subjects will complete ERP measures of attention and memory which require them to watch various computer images while wearing scalp electrodes recording from 11 sites. It is this test that we are going to be doing on CRC. There will be 30 lead overburdened children recruited from the larger study for participation in the ERP studies on CRC. These 30 children will be matched with 30 children without lead overburden. This portion of the study is important in providing an index of physiological functioning to be used along with behaviorally based measures of attention and memory, and for providing information about the different measures.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR00400-0587", "Keywords": "['lead overburden']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000104.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "July 2002", "Description": "Patients will receive each vaccine once only consisting of: Arm A: Intracel KLH 1000 mcg (1 mg) without adjuvant, subcutaneous Tetanus Toxoid 0.5 ml intramuscularly (this arm closed 1/2/02). Arm B: Biosyn KLH 1000 mcg (1 mg) without adjuvant, subcutaneous tetanus toxoid 0.5 ml intramuscularly (this arm closed 3/18/03). Arm C: Biosyn KLH 1000 mcg (1 mg) with Montanide ISA51 (now replaced with vegetable (VG) source after 8/31/06 to increase product safety) subcutaneous Tetanus toxoid 0.5 ml intramuscularly (this arm open 3/18/03). Subjects ineligible for tetanus may still receive KLH on this protocol. This is especially true given the national shortage of tetanus vaccines. Subjects will be eligible for tetanus when it becomes available if there has been no significant change in treatment interventions or overall health status and it is within 3 months of the KLH vaccine.", "Title": "Vaccination With Tetanus and KLH to Assess Immune Responses.", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000105", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000105.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000105", "Summary": "The purpose of this study is to learn how the immune system works in response to vaccines. We will give the vaccines to subjects who have cancer but have not had treatment, and to patients who have had chemotherapy or stem cell transplant. Some patients will get vaccines while they are on treatments which boost the immune system (like the immune stimulating drug interleukin-2 or IL-2). Although we have safely treated many patients with immune boosting drugs, we do not yet know if they improve the body's immune system to respond better to a vaccine. Some healthy volunteers will also be given the vaccines in order to serve as control subjects to get a good measure of the normal immune response. We will compare the patients and the healthy volunteers to study how their immune systems respond to the vaccines. There are several different types of white cells in the blood. We are interested in immune cells in the blood called T-cells. These T-cells detect foreign substances in the body (like viruses and cancer cells). We are trying to learn more about how the body fights these foreign substances. Our goal is to develop cancer vaccines which would teach T-cells to detect and kill cancer cells better. We know that in healthy people the immune system effectively protects against recurrent virus infection. For example, that is why people only get \"mono\" (mononucleosis) once under normal circumstances. When the body is infected with the \"mono\" virus, the immune system remembers and prevents further infection. We are trying to use the immune system to prevent cancer relapse. To test this, we will give two vaccines which have been used to measure these immune responses. Blood samples will be studied from cancer patients and will be compared to similar samples from normal subjects.", "OrgStudyId": "2002LS032", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000105.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Vaccination With Tetanus Toxoid and Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH) to Assess Antigen-Specific Immune Responses", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Terminated", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"MaximumAge": "65", "Title": "41.8 Degree Centigrade Whole Body Hyperthermia for the Treatment of Rheumatoid Diseases", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000106", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000106.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000106", "Summary": "Recently a non-toxic system for whole body hyperthermia (WBH) used at the University of Wisconsin has been shown to induce soluble tumor necrosis factor-receptor (sTNF-R) I and II when patients are heated systemically to 41.8C for 60 minutes. This observation might provide a biological basis for the therapeutic application of WBH to rheumatoid diseases, for which there is a positive anecdotal clinical experience. Inherent in the hypothesis which is the basis for this protocol is the concept that the induction of TNF receptors by WBH may induce a remission in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. Beyond clinical response the biological endpoint for this investigation includes cytokine levels, TNF levels, sTNF-R levels and changes in cellular TNF receptors.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR03186-9943", "Keywords": "['Rheumatoid Diseases']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000106.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"MaximumAge": "60", "Title": "Body Water Content in Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000107", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000107.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000107", "Summary": "Adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease have elevated levels of plasma proatrial natruretic peptide (proANP) which most likely results in chronic dehydration, leading to reduced oxygen transport to tissues and shortness of breath with activity. The purpose of this study is to characterize adults with cyanotic congenital heart defects with respect to their body composition (water and fat-free mass) and resting metabolic rates. The study consists of several measures of how much body water, fat and lean tissue a subject has, and measures the number of calories the subject's body uses at rest. Adult subjects with cyanotic congenital heart disease will be recruited along with healthy noncyanotic control subjects matched for age, gender, and body weight.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR00109-0737", "Keywords": "['Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000107.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "17"},
{"MaximumAge": "65", "Title": "Effects of Training Intensity on the CHD Risk Factors in Postmenopausal Women", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000108", "Gender": "Female", "FileName": "NCT00000108.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000108", "Summary": "The purpose of this research is to find out whether training at different exercise intensities reduces the risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) to a different extent. Heart attacks and stroke are the leading cause of death in older women. Reduced variability of the heart rate and increased dips and swings in blood pressure are risks factors that predict the chance of developing CVD as are increased levels of clotting protein fibrinogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, and high levels of LDL-cholesterol (>160mg/dl). We will be measuring all of these risk factors and any changes in your body fat level before you start training and after 15 and 30 weeks of training in the form of walking. At the present time the effects of exercise intensity on these factors are not well understood. This study will add to the basic understanding of these issues and allow us to recommend to postmenopausal women optimal exercise intensities to lose body fat and reduce the risk of developing CVD.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR00042-1647", "Keywords": "['exercise']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000108.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "50"},
{"MaximumAge": "49", "Title": "Influence of Diet and Endurance Running on Intramuscular Lipids Measured at 4.1 TESLA", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000110", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000110.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000110", "Summary": "The purpose of this pilot investigation is to use 1 H Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) to 1) document the change in intra-muscular lipid stores (IML) before and after a prolonged bout of endurance running and, 2) determine the pattern (time course) of IML replenishment following an extremely low-fat diet (10% of energy from fat) and a moderate-fat diet (35% of energy from fat). Specifically, the study will evaluate the change in IML following a 2-hour training run and the recovery of IML in response to the post-exercise low-fat or moderate-fat diet in 10 endurance trained athletes who will consume both diets in a randomly assigned cross-over fashion. We hypothesize that IML will be depleted with prolonged endurance exercise, and that replenishment of IML will be impaired by an extremely low-fat diet compared to a moderate-fat diet. Results of this pilot study will be used to apply for extramural grant support from NIH or the US Armed Forces to investigate the effect of dietary fat on the health and performance of individuals performing heavy physical training. It is anticipated that this methodology could also be employed in obesity research to delineate, longitudinally, the reported cross-sectional relationships among IML stores, insulin resistance and obesity.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR00032-0855", "Keywords": "['exercise','exertion','physical fitness','lipids','nutrition']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000110.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"MaximumAge": "0", "Title": "Intraoral Grafting of Ex Vivo Produced Oral Mucosal Composites", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000111", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000111.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000111", "Summary": "The purpose of this study is to see if we can develop a good graft for oral mucosal tissue that is like the top of the mouth in a \"test tube\" that could be used successfully in humans. We have already done this successfully mice. The next step is to take a small piece of tissue from a human volunteer and see if we can grow a larger piece of tissue from it outside the human body and graft it back into the same person successfully. We expect that this technique will work. It has already been tried in patients with burns of the skin who have had similar procedures where the skin is grafted back to them. The significance of this research is that oral tissue taken from the top of the mouth or palate is in limited supply and leaves the patient with a painful and uncomfortable post surgery experience. If we are successful with our technique the patient will experience less pain and discomfort from the site that we are using to grow our tissue outside the body than if we had taken it from the top of the mouth or palate. In addition, by waiting longer periods to grow the patient's cells we can make larger pieces of oral tissue than we could have gotten directly from the patient's mouth. Patients who will participate in this study will need to require a soft tissue graft from the mouth to an area that needs additional attached or keratinized mucosa. This will most likely be either in preparation for patients who have or will have dental implants placed. Another subset of patients are those who need scar tissue released or the vestibule of their mouth (area that turns from the gums to the lip) released.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR00042-1620", "Keywords": "['mouth mucosa','transplants']", "Phase": "Phase 1", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000111.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"MaximumAge": "18", "Title": "Prevalence of Carbohydrate Intolerance in Lean and Obese Children", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000112", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000112.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000112", "Summary": "The prevalence of obesity in children is reaching epidemic proportions. Excess adiposity is more than just a cosmetic problem, having substantial metabolic consequences. Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, impaired glucose tolerance, and frank diabetes are often seen in obese children. In this study the prevalence of impaired glucose (carbohydrate) tolerance in lean children with a family history of diabetes and obese children with acanthosis nigricans with or without a family history of diabetes mellitus will be studied.", "OrgStudyId": "NCRR-M01RR06022-0029", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000112.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "Accepts Healthy Volunteers", "OverallStatus": "Recruiting", "MinimumAge": "8"},
{"StartDate": "September 1997", "Description": "Myopia (nearsightedness) is an important public health problem, which entails substantial societal and personal costs. It is highly prevalent in our society and even more frequent in Asian countries; furthermore, its prevalence may be increasing over time. High myopia contributes to significant loss of vision and blindness. At present, the mechanisms involved in the etiology of myopia are unclear, and there is no way to prevent the condition. Current methods of correction require lifelong use of lenses or surgical treatment, which is expensive and may lead to complications. The rationale for this trial, the Correction of Myopia Evaluation Trial (COMET), arises from the convergence of research involving (1) the link between accommodation and myopia in children and (2) animal models of myopia showing the important role of the visual environment in eye growth. A contribution of this research is that blur is a critical component in the development of myopia. The primary aim of COMET, to evaluate the efficacy of progressive addition lenses, a noninvasive intervention, in slowing the progression of myopia, follows from this line of reasoning. These lenses should provide clear visual input over a range of viewing distances without focusing effort by the child. The comparison of myopia progression in children treated with PALs versus single vision lenses will allow the quantification of the effect of PALs on myopia progression during the followup period. The COMET is a multicenter, randomized, double-masked clinical trial to evaluate whether PALs slow the progression of juvenile-onset myopia as compared with single vision lenses. The study is a collaborative effort that involves a Study Chair at the New England College of Optometry; four clinical centers at colleges of optometry in Boston, Birmingham, Philadelphia, and Houston; and a Coordinating Center at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. The sample size goal, 450 children with myopia in both eyes who met specific inclusion and exclusion criteria, was attained with the enrollment of 469 children in one year. Children were identified from school screenings, clinic records, and referrals from local practitioners. Eligible children were randomly assigned to receive progressive addition or single vision lenses. Participating children are being examined at 6-month intervals following baseline, for at least 3 years, to measure changes in refractive error and to update prescriptions, according to a specified protocol. A dilated examination to evaluate the study outcome measures is performed at the annual study visits. A standardized, common protocol is used at all centers. The primary outcome of the study is progression of myopia, defined as the magnitude of the change relative to baseline in spherical equivalent refraction, determined by cycloplegic autorefraction. The secondary outcome of the study is axial length measured by A-scan ultrasonography.", "Title": "Correction of Myopia Evaluation Trial (COMET)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000113", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000113.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000113", "Summary": "To evaluate whether progressive addition lenses (PALs) slow the rate of progression of juvenile-onset myopia (nearsightedness) when compared with single vision lenses, as measured by cycloplegic autorefraction. An additional outcome measure is axial length, as measured by A-scan ultrasonography. To describe the natural history of juvenile-onset myopia in a group of children receiving conventional treatment (single vision lenses).", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-9", "Keywords": "['myopia','nearsightedness']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000113.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Correction of Myopia Evaluation Trial (COMET)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "12", "MinimumAge": "6"},
{"StartDate": "May 1984", "Description": "Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited retinal degenerations with a worldwide prevalence of about 1 in 4,000. Patients typically report night blindness in adolescence and lose vision in the midperipheral followed by far-peripheral visual field in adulthood due to progressive loss of both rod and cone function. Most patients have reductions in central vision by age 50 to 80 years. Modern-day electroretinograms (ERGs) make it possible to record retinal responses from most patients with remaining vision and thereby monitor objectively the course of their disease. While the natural course of retinal degeneration in the common forms of RP was being studied, it was noted that a subgroup of patients aged 18 through 49 who were treating themselves with both vitamin A and vitamin E and other nutritional supplements exhibited less decline in ERG amplitude over a 2-year period. These preliminary findings, as well as the known roles of vitamins A and E in maintaining normal photoreceptor function and structure, prompted this randomized, controlled trial to determine whether these vitamins alone or in combination would halt or slow the progression of the common forms of RP. This study was a randomized, controlled double-masked trial with 2 x 2 factorial design and duration of 4 to 6 years. Patients were assigned to one of four treatment groups: 15,000 IU/day vitamin A 15,000 IU/day vitamin A + 400 IU/day vitamin E trace amounts of both vitamins A and E 400 IU/day of vitamin E The main outcome measure was the 30-Hz cone ERG amplitude. In addition, visual field and visual acuity were measured annually.", "Title": "Randomized Trial of Vitamin A and Vitamin E Supplementation for Retinitis Pigmentosa", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000114", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000114", "Summary": "To determine whether supplements of vitamin A or vitamin E alone or in combination affect the course of retinitis pigmentosa.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-10", "Keywords": "['retinitis pigmentosa','vitamin supplements']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000114.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000114.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "49", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "December 1990", "Description": "Uveitis, an intraocular inflammatory disease, is the cause of about 10 percent of visual impairment in the United States. Uveitis may lead to many sight-threatening conditions, including cataract, vitreal opacities, glaucoma, and, most commonly, cystoid macular edema. Reduction of swelling or edema within the retina depends on the movement of fluid from the retina through the choroid. A number of studies indicate that this process requires active transport of fluid ions by the retinal pigment epithelium and may involve the carbonic anhydrase system. Current treatment of uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema requires the use of immunosuppressive or anti-inflammatory agents. However, many patients are either resistant or intolerant to this therapy. Recent reports suggested that acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used to lower intraocular pressure in some glaucoma patients, might be safe and effective in reducing uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema. Because the course of ocular inflammatory disease can be variable, a double-masked, randomized, crossover trial was designed to test the efficacy of acetazolamide compared with a placebo for the treatment of uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema. Randomized adult patients received either oral acetazolamide sodium 500 mg or a matched placebo every 12 hours for the first 4 weeks of the study. Children 8 years of age or older received a lesser dose based on body weight. Following a 4-week period, during which no medication was given, patients then received a 4-week course of the opposite medication. Primary end points included reduction in cystoid macular edema (graded on fluorescein angiography) and improvement in visual acuity (measured on standardized Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] charts). Laser acuity was also assessed as a secondary outcome variable. Adverse effects of the acetazolamide therapy were monitored by clinical and laboratory examinations. A total of 40 patients were recruited for the study. Patients were seen at the beginning of the study for baseline measurements and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after enrollment into the study.", "Title": "Randomized Trial of Acetazolamide for Uveitis-Associated Cystoid Macular Edema", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000115", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000115", "Summary": "To test the efficacy of acetazolamide for the treatment of uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-11", "Phase": "Phase 2", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000115.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000115.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "8"},
{"StartDate": "May 1996", "Description": "Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited retinal degenerations with a worldwide prevalence of approximately 1 in 4,000. Patients typically report night blindness and difficulty with midperipheral visual field in adolescence. As the condition progresses, they lose far peripheral visual field. Most patients have reductions in central vision by age 50 to 80 years. Based on electroretinograms (ERGs), the course of the disease can be slowed on average among adults on 15,000 IU/day of vitamin A palmitate. While conducting the trial on the effects of vitamin A on RP, it became apparent that another substance in the diet could be affecting the course of the disease. This prompted the present randomized, controlled trial. This study is a randomized, controlled, double-masked trial with a planned duration of 5 years. Patients with the common forms of RP are assigned to either a test or a control group. All receive 15,000 IU/day of vitamin A palmitate in addition to the capsules under study. Participants will not know the contents of the supplement or the group to which they have been assigned until the end of the trial. The main outcome measurement is the total point score on the Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA). In addition, computer-averaged 30-Hz cone ERG amplitudes and visual acuity are measured annually.", "Title": "Randomized Trial for Retinitis Pigmentosa", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000116", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000116", "Summary": "The purpose of this trial is to determine whether a nutritional supplement in addition to vitamin A will slow the course of retinitis pigmentosa.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-12", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000116.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Randomized Trial for Retinitis Pigmentosa", "FileName": "NCT00000116.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "56", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "August 1995", "Description": "Optic neuritis is the leading cause of transient, spontaneous, reversible visual loss in young adults. Characteristically, patients present with central visual loss that peaks within a few days and is often associated with eye pain. Visual loss may be complete. Spontaneous recovery usually begins within 4 weeks, and marked recovery occurs within 1 to 3 months in most patients. Although clinical improvement is the rule, not all patients recover fully, and many are left with residual symptoms. Although there are limited pathological studies in inflammatory ON, the pathological changes are thought to be virtually identical with those seen in MS, with disruption of the blood-nerve (brain) barrier; primary demyelination with axonal sparing; variable degrees of lymphocytic infiltration; an abundance of macrophages around the inflammatory demyelination lesion; various degrees of remyelination; and, later, oligodendrocyte loss, axonal loss, and gliosis. Remyelination by oligodendrocytes occurs early in the MS lesion, as documented by myelin sheaths that are abnormally thin relative to axon diameter. These thin myelin sheaths are often seen prominently at the edge of demyelinated plaques. A recent series of studies has shown that within weeks of the initial event, there is extensive oligodendrocyte regeneration and remyelination. These immature oligodendrocytes express a series of developmentally restricted antigens. This finding has been interpreted to suggest that the cells that repopulate the acute plaque and that affect remyelination are newly generated and not residual, mature oligodendrocytes. These observations support the possibility that factors that promote remyelination could be used to improve clinical recovery in ON and MS. Work at the Mayo Clinic, has shown that both immunoglobulin G (IgG) directed against spinal cord antigens and purified polyclonal mouse IgG administered systemically promote extensive remyelination in SJL mice chronically infected with Theiler's virus. In addition, tissue culture studies suggest that IgG directed against CNS components may promote oligodendroglial proliferation and differentiation. Thus, experimental evidence exists for the concept that immunoglobulins may stimulate the proliferation and differentiation of oligodendrocytes. It is possible that myelin components on the surface of oligodendrocytes could function as receptors or components of receptors. Antibodies could mimic endogenous ligands, thereby inducing the proliferation or differentiation of these cells. In a preliminary, open-label pilot study of patients with chronic, steroid-unresponsive ON, Drs. van Engelen, Hommes, and colleagues suggested that improvement in visual recovery could be seen following IgG treatment in patients with chronic, stable ON. These encouraging but preliminary basic and clinical studies have prompted us to design a double-blind and placebo-controlled clinical trial of IVIg in patients with recently acquired but apparently permanent muscle paralysis from MS (NS31506) and to develop this NEI-funded ON study (U10EY1096301). In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial, 60 patients were assigned to receive either IVIg or a placebo over a period of 3 months. In order to be eligible, patients who meet the inclusion criteria needed to have a stable loss of visual function (unchanged between the pre-enrollment screening visit and the enrollment visit). All patients wre re-examined at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, with the primary outcome being the impact of treatment on visual acuity at 6 months as determined by measurements on a retroilluminated Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart at 4 meters. One group of patients received 0.4 g/kg Gammimmune N intravenously daily for 5 days, and thereafter once a month for 3 months (total: eight infusions). The other group of patients received infusions of 0.1 percent human serum albumin in 10 percent maltose (placebo) according to the identical protocol used for Gammimmune N. The primary outcome measure was improvement in Logmar visual acuity by an average of 0.2 at 6 months. The secondary outcome measures included change in visual acuity at 3, 9, and 12 months, as determined on a retroilluminated ETDRS chart at 4 meters; change in visual fields at 6 and 12 months; change in visual evoked responses at 3, 6, and 12 months; and change in neurological examination (EDSS, FS, AI) at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.", "Title": "Intravenous Immunoglobulin Therapy in Optic Neuritis", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000117", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000117", "Summary": "To determine whether high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) is more effective than placebo in restoring lost visual function (visual acuity) in optic neuritis (ON). To determine the time course of recovery following IVIg administration. If the reports of IVIg-associated clinical improvement occurring within 3 to 6 months following treatment can be confirmed, this would provide indirect evidence that IVIg may promote central nervous system (CNS) remyelination in optic neuritis and multiple sclerosis (MS).", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-13", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000117.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000117.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "50", "MinimumAge": "0"}]
