[
{"StartDate": "October 1992", "Description": "CMV retinitis occurs in 20 to 30 percent of patients with AIDS and is the leading cause of visual loss in these patients. At present, ganciclovir and foscarnet are the only drugs that have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of CMV retinitis. The therapeutic regimen for each drug consists of a 2-week induction period followed by daily maintenance intravenous infusions. Unfortunately, CMV retinitis usually progresses despite daily maintenance therapy, and both drugs are associated with significant systemic toxicity that often limits their therapeutic usefulness. As an alternative to intravenous administration, direct intravitreal injections of ganciclovir have been studied and have been shown to be effective in delaying the progression of CMV retinitis. The short half-life of the drug, however, necessitates one to two intraocular injections a week to maintain therapeutic levels. Widespread adoption of this technique has been limited because of the logistical difficulties and inherent risks associated with numerous intravitreal injections. A drug delivery system capable of continuous delivery of ganciclovir into the vitreous cavity has been developed. The device consists of a 6-mg pellet of ganciclovir that is coated with a series of polymers with variable permeability to ganciclovir. The device is surgically implanted through the pars plana. Thirty eyes of 26 patients with unilateral non-sight-threatening CMV retinitis were randomly assigned to one of two groups: (1) immediate therapy with a device designed to release ganciclovir into the vitreous cavity a over approximately a 4-month period or (2) deferred treatment. In patients with bilateral non-sight-threatening CMV retinitis, one eye was randomly assigned to receive a ganciclovir implant with the other eye assigned to deferred treatment. (Note: The original trial design included a third randomized arm using a 2 ug/hour device. This arm was dropped for logistical reasons after enrolling two patients.) Patients assigned to immediate treatment underwent surgery to implant the ganciclovir device within 48 hours of enrollment and baseline photographs. Postoperatively, patients were evaluated the next day, weekly for 2 weeks, and then every 2 weeks until progression of CMV retinitis occurred. At each examination, in both eyes, visual acuity with current correction and best correction was determined using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study eye charts; intraocular pressure was determined; evidence of inflammation or cataract was evaluated; and all retinal findings were documented. Any adverse event considered even possibly related to the device or to the implantation procedure was documented. Standardized nine-field fundus photographs were taken at each 2-week visit. The ganciclovir implant was exchanged at 32 weeks or earlier if progression of CMV retinitis occurred. The primary end point was time to CMV retinitis progression, defined as the time (days) from initiating therapy until the advancement of 750-um over a 750 um front of any border of any lesion was observed. Standardized nine-field photographs were taken at 2-week intervals and analyzed in a masked fashion by the Fundus Photograph Reading Center to determine evidence of CMV retinitis progression. Secondary end points included time to development of CMV retinitis in the contralateral eye, time to development of visceral CMV, and time to death.", "Title": "Ganciclovir Implant Study for Cytomegalovirus Retinitis", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000118", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000118", "Summary": "To determine the therapeutic efficacy of a sustained-release intraocular drug delivery system for ganciclovir therapy of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-14", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000118.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000118.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "March 1994", "Description": "Patients with uveitis are at high risk for significant complications following cataract surgery with intraocular lens implantation. Complications may result from the surgery itself or may develop after surgery as a result of the intraocular lens. Complications related to intraocular lens implantation include iris adhesions to the intraocular lens, which can result in lens capture; cellular deposits on the surface of the lens that can obscure vision; and uveitis. Recent studies have identified giant cells on the anterior surface of intraocular lenses in some patients with uveitis, appearing to indicate an intraocular lens-induced inflammatory response. Some of these patients have required multiple YAG laser procedures to remove these deposits. Modification of the surface of the intraocular lens with a layer of heparin may provide a more biocompatible surface. Preclinical studies have shown a reduction in the degree of postoperative complications with the heparin surface-modified intraocular lens compared with an unmodified lens. Although retrospective case series have examined the use of heparin surface-modified intraocular lenses in patients with uveitis, a randomized, controlled clinical trial has not been performed. This is a randomized clinical trial examining the safety and efficacy of the heparin surface-modified intraocular lens in patients with uveitis. Eighty patients with a history of uveitis in an eye requiring cataract surgery will be randomized to receive a heparin surface-modified intraocular lens or the same model of intraocular lens without surface modification. The primary end point of the study will be the development of cellular deposits on the anterior surface of the intraocular lens 1 year after surgery. These cellular deposits will be assessed by a masked grader using standard photographs. Secondary end points will include visual acuity, intraocular inflammation, development of anterior and posterior synechiae, and corneal endothelial cell counts.", "Title": "Safety and Efficacy of a Heparin-Coated Intraocular Lens in Uveitis", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000119", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000119", "Summary": "To investigate the safety and efficacy of a heparin surface-modified intraocular lens in patients with uveitis undergoing cataract surgery. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of intraocular lens implantation in patients with severe uveitis.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-15", "Phase": "Phase 2", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000119.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000119.txt", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "18"},
{"StartDate": "January 1985", "Description": "Sexually transmitted diseases are a major cause of neonatal eye infections. All 50 States require some eye treatment at birth to prevent gonorrheal eye infections. Approximately 3 to 4 million Americans acquire a genital chlamydial infection each year, and more than 150,000 infants are born to mothers with chlamydial infections. These infants are at high risk of developing conjunctivitis and pneumonia. In the State of Washington, one of three treatments is presently required by law to help prevent gonorrheal eye infection in newborn babies: 1 percent silver nitrate drops, erythromycin ointment, or tetracycline ointment. Although all three treatments appear to prevent eye infections from gonorrhea, silver nitrate and erythromycin may also partially prevent chlamydial conjunctivitis. However, silver nitrate may irritate and damage the eyes of newborns. If it is not known whether the mother is infected, it may be better not to give the drugs routinely. It could not be clearly established from the medical literature whether the risk to infants from no treatment was higher or lower than the risk from receiving a prophylactic agent. Many parents at low risk for gonorrhea prefer that no prophylaxis be given to their newborns. Moreover, Great Britain, which used no eye prophylactic agents for newborns for the 25 years preceding the study, has rates of neonatal conjunctivitis similar to those in the United States. For these reasons, the Washington State Board of Health granted this study an exemption from the State law to allow the investigators to evaluate scientifically the risks and benefits of no treatment. The study was a randomized, double-masked clinical trials planned to include 1,200 infants born over 3 years. The trial compared the efficacy of two treatment regimens (silver nitrate and erythromycin) in two treatment groups to the outcomes in a control group receiving no prophylaxis. (Erythromycin was chosen over tetracycline as the antibiotic in this study because it is more commonly used in the United States for ocular prophylaxis.) Women were recruited from the University of Washington Medical Center-associated obstetric units. Among the 2,577 women eligible for possible participation, 758 enrolled. Of these participants, 89 were not randomized. Among the 669 randomized women, 39 were not available for personal observation. These 39 were equally distributed among the three prophylaxis groups. In the final participant group, the infants of 630 women were evaluable. The infants were randomly assigned to one of these three groups in the delivery room. Infants without conjunctivitis were monitored for 2 months after delivery. Infants who developed conjunctivitis were monitored for 2 months after successful treatment of their infection. The study included extensive efforts to determine the etiology of the conjunctivitis and to find nasolacrimal duct obstruction.", "Title": "Clinical Trial of Eye Prophylaxis in the Newborn", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000120", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000120", "Summary": "To compare the effectiveness of silver nitrate drops, erythromycin ointment, or no medication in preventing neonatal conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis and other eye infections. To compare side effects of the two prophylactic agents.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-19", "Keywords": "['Neonatal Conjunctivitis']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000120.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000120.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "March 1984", "Description": "Acquired esotropia (crossed eyes that develop after a child reaches the age of 6 months) accounts for 25 percent of all patients with misaligned eyes. Surgery to correct esotropia is done primarily to attain functional use of the two eyes together. The cosmetic aspect of the surgery is secondary. In 40 to 50 percent of cases, more than one operation is needed to accomplish the primary goal, and in some cases even three and four operations are needed. Preliminary studies from two eye care centers reported that the use of prisms on eyeglasses for about a month before surgery led to good results after a single operation in more than 90 percent of patients. These uncontrolled preliminary studies pointed to the need for a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial designed to prove or disprove scientifically the beneficial effect of prisms. The Prism Adaptation Study was a double randomization trial involving 286 patients. Three-fifths of the patients were randomly selected for prism adaptation before surgery. Of the patients who responded to the prisms, one-half were randomly selected to have surgery based on the amount of prism required to stabilize the deviation, and the other half had surgery based on the amount of esotropia originally measured. Patients who did not respond to the prisms also had surgery based on the amount of esotropia measured, as did the two-fifths of the patients who did not undergo prism adaptation. Patients were examined postoperatively at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year. An independent examiner, masked to the treatment assignment, evaluated the patient at the 6-month followup. The results were analyzed to determine whether the outcome was better in patients who underwent prism adaptation or in those who underwent conventional treatment. Because the examiner did not know what type of treatment a patient had received, he or she would have no bias in evaluating the results.", "Title": "The Prism Adaptation Study (PAS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000121", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000121", "Summary": "To determine whether the preoperative use of prisms in eyeglasses can improve the outcome of surgery for acquired esotropia, a type of strabismus. To determine whether patients who respond to prism adaptation by developing a new stable angle of -deviation have a better surgical result than do patients who do not respond to prism adaptation. To determine whether patients who respond to prism adaptation are more accurately corrected by operating for the prism-adapted angle or the original angle of deviation. To determine the usefulness of certain input variables (e.g., age at the time of surgery, size of the deviation, visual acuity, binocular function, refractive error) in predicting which patients are more likely to benefit from prism adaptation.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-20", "Keywords": "['strabismus']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000121.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000121.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "3"},
{"StartDate": "September 1985", "Description": "Filtering surgery adequately lowers intraocular pressure in most glaucoma patients. However, the prognosis is less favorable for aphakic patients with glaucoma or glaucoma in phakic eyes following unsuccessful filtering operations. Failure of filtering surgery is usually attributed to the proliferation of fibroblasts at the filtering site. The use of 5-FU, an antimetabolite, has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of fibroblasts in tissue culture, and in preliminary studies it has increased the success of filtering surgery in a nonhuman primate model. The Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery Study (FFSS) was a randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing the success rate of standard glaucoma filtering surgery to the success rate of standard surgery with adjunctive 5-FU treatment. Another element of this study was to evaluate the frequency and severity of possible adverse effects related to 5-FU injections. Detailed preoperative and postoperative examinations of the cornea, lens, and retina were performed. Systemic toxicity was assessed by preoperative and postoperative hematologic studies. After the investigators performed the filtering surgery and determined that the new outlet channel was working, patients were randomized to receive either 5-FU injections or standard postsurgical care without 5-FU. The patients treated with 5-FU received subconjunctival injections of 5 mg of 5-FU twice daily on postoperative days 1 through 7 and once daily on postoperative days 8 through 14. There were 213 patients recruited into the study, 162 with previous cataract extraction and 51 with previous filtering surgery. All patients were examined at 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 18 months, and 2 years postoperatively and at yearly intervals thereafter until 5 years postoperatively. Possible concomitant risks of 5-FU treatment, such as toxic effects to the cornea, lens, or retina, were monitored.", "Title": "Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery Study (FFSS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000122", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000122.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000122", "Summary": "To determine whether postoperative subconjunctival injections of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) increase the success rate of filtering surgery in patients at high risk for failure after standard glaucoma filtering surgery.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-21", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000122.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "0"},
{"StartDate": "January 1978", "Description": "In the early 1960s, a group of clinicians asserted that myopia could be reduced and possibly corrected by fitting specially designed contact lenses to induce corneal flattening and thereby reduce the refractive power of the eye. This technique, known as orthokeratology, required that the lenses be fitted and then changed progressively until vision becomes normal or nearly normal. Advocates of orthokeratology claimed that corneal changes could be induced in a predictable fashion, were often permanent, and occurred without causing any adverse effects to the cornea. Data on orthokeratology were generally limited, poorly documented, and did not address the issues of control or failure. The Berkeley Orthokeratology Study was a single center randomized, concurrently controlled, masked clinical trial. Corneal and visual changes in an orthokeratology treatment group were monitored and compared with those observed in a control group whose members wore contact lenses fitted in a standard clinical manner. Visual and ocular characteristics were monitored for 1.5 years. Eighty subjects were studied-40 in an orthokeratology group and 40 in a control group fitted with conventional hard contact lenses. The hard lenses chosen for this study were made of either polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) or a PMMA-silicone combination (Polycon). All subjects were initially fitted with PMMA lenses. The initial treatment and control lenses were selected according to protocol guidelines and then adjusted to achieve an \"optimal fit\" based on lens position, movement, and alignment as assessed by fluorescein study. At the outset, the treatment and control lenses differed in that the treatment lenses were on the average thicker and flatter and had a larger diameter. Following the dispensing visit, subjects progressed through three study phases. In the adaption phase (Phase A), subjects were examined weekly until they were adapted to 12 to 14 hours of daily contact lens wear. The postadaptive phase (Phase B) consisted of monthly followup examinations for 1 year. The final phase (Phase C) consisted of a lens withdrawal segment and a postwearing segment.", "Title": "The Berkeley Orthokeratology Study", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000123", "Gender": "Both", "NCTID": "NCT00000123", "Summary": "To evaluate the relative efficacy of orthokeratology, primarily by assessment of changes in central corneal thickness, astigmatism, visual acuity, endothelial cell density, and corneal curvature. To evaluate the relative safety of orthokeratology, primarily by assessment of changes in central corneal thickness, astigmatism, visual acuity, endothelial cell density, induced corneal edema, and epithelial staining. To assess the duration of any orthokeratology treatment effect. To study the mechanisms by which refractive error and visual acuity changes occur, in particular the contribution that comes from changes in corneal curvature and shape. To determine whether there were any predisposing ocular factors that could be used to predict which subjects will experience changes or complications.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-22", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000123.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "FileName": "NCT00000123.txt", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "35", "MinimumAge": "20"},
{"StartDate": "November 1986", "Description": "For more than 100 years, removal of the eye (enucleation) has been the standard treatment for choroidal melanoma. Before the COMS was initiated in 1986, interest in radiation therapy had increased because of the potential for saving the eye and perhaps some vision. However, the merits of radiation with respect to prolonging patient survival were unknown. The best data from nonrandomized studies suggested that there was no difference in length of remaining life between patients treated with radiation and those whose eyes were enucleated. Thus, it was appropriate and necessary to conduct a randomized, controlled clinical trial in which a large number of patients would be followed for many years in order to compare enucleation and radiation with respect to relative success in prolonging survival of choroidal melanoma patients. The Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS) is a set of long-term, multicenter, randomized controlled trials. In the trial for patients with tumors of medium size, enucleation and irradiation with an iodine-125 episcleral plaque are compared on the basis of length of remaining life. All randomized patients will be followed for 5 to 15 years or until death. For patients randomly assigned to enucleation, the eye was removed following a standard procedure. For patients assigned to plaque irradiation, the margins of the tumor were located and the dimensions of the tumor were measured by the ophthalmic surgeon. A gold plaque with a plastic seed carrier that contained the proper dosage and configuration of radioactive iodine seeds was sutured to the outside (sclera) of the eye over the base of the tumor. This procedure made possible the delivery of a high dose of radiation to a very localized area (85 Gy [TG-43] to the tumor apex). The plaque typically was removed from the eye after three to seven days. Enrollment was completed in this trial in July 1998 with 1,317 patients enrolled. Clinical follow-up of patients will end in July 2003. In the COMS trial of preoperative radiation, patients with large tumors were randomized to enucleation alone or to enucleation preceded by 20 Gy of external beam radiation. The two randomly assigned groups of patients were followed for at least five years or until death and have been compared on the basis of length of remaining life and other outcomes. Enrollment in this trial was completed in December 1994, with 1,003 patients enrolled. Clinical follow-up of all patients in this trial ended in July 2000. Accrual to a nonrandomized pilot study to assess the feasibility of a randomized trial for small tumors was halted in 1989. Additional followup of those 204 patients was carried out from 1994 to 1996. The COMS is conducted in 43 clinical centers located in major population areas of the United States and Canada. Six resource centers participate and have major roles in quality assurance for the study. Information gathered and analyzed includes time to death from all causes, time to death from cancer (whether metastatic choroidal melanoma or not), diagnosis of other tumors, complications of radiation, and changes in visual acuity. A parallel study of quality of life for patients enrolled in the trial of radioactive plaque was initiated in January 1995. From November 1986 through July 1998, 8,712 patients with choroidal melanoma of all sizes were screened for eligibility for a COMS clinical trial.", "Title": "Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000124", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000124.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000124", "Summary": "To evaluate therapeutic interventions for patients who have choroidal melanoma, the most common primary eye cancer affecting adults, and to assess the potential life-preserving as well as sight-preserving role of radiation therapy. To determine which of two standard treatments, removal of the eye or brachytherapy, is more likely to prolong survival of eligible patients with medium-sized choroidal melanoma. To determine whether preoperative radiation prolongs life for patients whose eyes with large choroidal melanoma are enucleated.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-23", "Keywords": "['Choroidal Melanoma','Ocular Melanoma']", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000124.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "21"},
{"StartDate": "February 1994", "Description": "Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness in the United States and other industrialized countries. It is estimated that 2 million people in the United States have glaucoma and that 80,000 of these individuals are legally blind from the disease. Among African Americans, glaucoma is now recognized as the leading cause of blindness. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), a common condition affecting 3 to 6 million people in the United States, is thought to be the leading risk factor for development of open-angle glaucoma. There is no consensus that medical reduction of intraocular pressure prevents or delays the onset of visual field and/or optic nerve damage in ocular hypertensive subjects. Despite the lack of convincing evidence for the efficacy of medical treatment in ocular hypertension, approximately 1.5 million glaucoma suspects in the United States are being treated with costly ocular hypotensive medications that carry the potential for serious and even life-threatening side effects. Clearly, there is a need for a well-controlled clinical trial to determine whether medical reduction of IOP can prevent or delay the onset of glaucomatous damage in ocular hypertensive subjects. Only then can clinicians and patients make rational choices and health care planners ensure that limited medical resources are being allocated in a safe and cost-effective manner. The Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS) is a long-term, randomized, controlled multicenter clinical trial. Ocular hypertensive subjects judged to be at moderate risk of developing primary open-angle glaucoma are randomly assigned to either close observation only or a stepped medical regimen. Medical treatment consists of all commercially available topical ocular hypotensive eye drops. After completion of baseline measures (IOP, visual fields, disc photos) and randomization, the subjects are followed for a minimum of 5 years with automated threshold central static perimetry (Humphrey program 30-2) twice yearly and stereoscopic optic disc photographs once yearly. Study end points are reproducible visual field loss and/or progressive optic disc damage in either eye of a patient attributed to glaucoma by a Masked Endpoint Committee. All visual fields and optic disc photographs are read in a masked fashion in Reading Centers. In the 1991 Baltimore Eye Survey, African Americans were shown to have a prevalence of open-angle glaucoma four to five times higher than whites. Given this high prevalence of glaucoma in the African American population, it is important to recruit and follow an adequate sample of African American subjects in the trial (approximately 25 percent of the total patient sample). At the conclusion of this study, practitioners should be able to make reasonable estimates of risk for individual ocular hypertensive patients and to determine which ocular hypertensive individuals are most likely to benefit from early prophylactic medical treatment.", "Title": "Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000125", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000125.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000125", "Summary": "To determine whether medical reduction of intraocular pressure prevents or delays the onset of glaucomatous visual field loss and/or optic disc damage in ocular hypertensive participants judged to be at moderate risk for developing open-angle glaucoma. To produce natural history data to assist in identifying patients at most risk for developing open-angle glaucoma and those most likely to benefit from early medical treatment. To quantify risk factors for developing open-angle glaucoma among ocular hypertensive individuals.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-24", "Phase": "Phase 3", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000125.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "OfficialTitle": "Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS)", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Completed", "MaximumAge": "80", "MinimumAge": "40"},
{"StartDate": "October 1994", "Description": "NAION is the most common cause of acute optic nerve disease in the elderly, causing permanent and severe visual loss. No proven treatment currently exists to reverse or arrest this loss. There is no accepted method for the prevention or reduction of the likelihood of second eye involvement. NAION strikes both eyes in as many as 40 percent of affected patients (Beri et al. 1987), with a 2-year risk of about 25 percent (Steven Feldon, personal communication to SEK). IONDT compared optic nerve decompression surgery (ONDS), which was becoming a widely used treatment for NAION, with careful followup alone, in patients with newly diagnosed NAION. The rationale for the surgery was that NAION was caused by impaired blood flow to the optic nerve and that decompression surgery would restore vision by alleviating pressure surrounding the nerve. Because ONDS was fast becoming the standard of care, evaluation of the safety and efficacy of the procedure was tested in the context of a randomized clinical trial. Within 2 years of the start of the IONDT, the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee recommended cessation of the clinical trial recruitment. The National Institutes of Health issued a clinical alert to 25,000 ophthalmologists and neurologists describing the study findings that surgery was no better than careful followup and may be harmful (IONDT 1995). It was recommended that ONDS not be used in cases of NAION. Thus, the IONDT findings not only have led to a costly and ineffective surgery to be abandoned as a treatment for NAION, but also have left practitioners with a dearth of treatment choices. The IONDT is the first multicenter, prospective study of newly diagnosed patients with NAION. The baseline history and examination, which took place within 14 days of the onset of symptoms, used standardized methods and diagnostic criteria to collect data on all factors possibly relating to the etiology of NAION. In reports from previous studies that present data on both initial and final visual acuities, no data are available regarding change in visual acuity over time for individual patients. Where data are available on final visual acuity, reported rates of improvement are low, ranging from 0 percent to 33 percent for untreated eyes. The IONDT found, however, an improvement of three or more lines in 42.7 percent of patients who received careful followup. NAION in both eyes has been reported in as few as 10.5 percent and as many as 73 percent of patients. In a study of bilateral NAION where all patients were prospectively logged, Beri et al. reported that 17.5 percent of patients developed bilateral disease at 1 year of followup and 34.5 percent developed it at 5 years. However, Beck et al., using a life table analysis on the same cohort reported by Beri et al., estimated the risk of bilateral NAION to be 12 percent within 2 years and 19 percent within 5 years. The IONDT has so far similarly reported a 12 percent (25/216) incidence of bilateral NAION in its randomized patients. The incidence in the nonrandomized group, 91 percent of whom had visual acuity better than 20/64, is much lower at 4 percent (5/136). Thus, continued followup of the IONDT cohort is critically important to ascertain a clear picture of the natural history of NAION in terms of involvement of the second eye and long-term vision. Data obtained will be critical in understanding the etiology of the disease and in generating hypotheses for testing further treatments for the disease. The IONDT Followup Study will continue to monitor vision and other health outcomes in patients originally enrolled in the IONDT, whether randomized to one of the two treatment groups or whether followed as part of the natural history cohort. All IONDT patients were diagnosed with NAION within 14 days of onset of symptoms, have had a minimum of 2 years of continuous followup, and will be followed for an additional 4 years in the Followup Study. Patients will have annual visits at the original IONDT Clinical Center or, if necessary, with a surrogate provider. If NAION occurs in the second eye, the patient will be asked to visit the clinic for a special visit. The Coordinating Center will telephone the patients on a quarterly basis, between annual visits. Outcomes that will be examined include: - incidence of NAION in the second eye, - medical or ocular events surrounding the occurrence of NAION, - visual acuity (measured using the New York Lighthouse charts). In the event of an NAION event in the second eye, the patient's visual field will be tested by using the Humphrey Perimeter.", "Title": "Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Decompression Trial Followup (IONDT Followup)", "URL": "https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000126", "Gender": "Both", "FileName": "NCT00000126.txt", "NCTID": "NCT00000126", "Summary": "To follow all patients enrolled in the original Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Decompression Trial (IONDT) to determine (1) the incidence of non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) in the second eye, (2) changes in visual acuity over time in both the study and second eye, and (3) other aspects of the natural history of NAION.", "OrgStudyId": "NEI-25", "Keywords": "['Non-arteritic Ischemic Optic Neuropathy']", "Phase": "N/A", "MyURL": "https://azure.storagedemos.com/clinical-trials/NCT00000126.txt", "Date": "ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016", "HealthyVolunteers": "No", "OverallStatus": "Active, not recruiting", "MaximumAge": "0", "MinimumAge": "50"}]
